The Project Gutenberg EBook of Notes on the Mangue: An extinct Dialect
formerly spoken in Nicaragua, by Daniel Garrison Brinton

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: Notes on the Mangue: An extinct Dialect formerly spoken in Nicaragua

Author: Daniel Garrison Brinton

Release Date: January 10, 2017 [EBook #53936]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK NOTES ON THE MANGUE ***




Produced by Mary Glenn Krause, MFR, University of Texas
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
http://www.pgdp.net (This book was produced from scanned
images of public domain material from the Google Books
project.)





Transcriber’s Note: Obvious printers’ errors have been corrected.




                          NOTES ON THE MANGUE;

                  An extinct Dialect formerly spoken in
                               Nicaragua.

                                   BY
                        DANIEL G. BRINTON, M.D.,

            (_Read before the American Philosophical Society,
                          November 20, 1885._)




                          NOTES ON THE MANGUE;

                  An extinct Dialect formerly spoken in
                               Nicaragua.

                                   BY
                        DANIEL G. BRINTON, M.D.,

              Professor of Ethnology and Archæology at the
               Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia.

            (_Read before the American Philosophical Society,
                          November 20, 1885._)

                              PHILADELPHIA:
             MCCALLA & STAVELY, PRINTERS, 237-9 DOCK STREET.
                                  1886.




NOTES ON THE MANGUE;

_An Extinct Dialect formerly spoken in Nicaragua_.

BY DANIEL G. BRINTON, M.D.

(_Read before the American Philosophical Society, November 20, 1885._)


_Sources._ Nothing whatever has been published about the Mangue language,
except a list of ninety-five words, by Mr. E. G. Squier in his work,
“Nicaragua, its People, Scenery and Monuments.” Whence he obtained this
short vocabulary he does not state; but it is evidently the work of some
one only slightly acquainted with the character of the language. I do not
make any use of it in the present notes, except in a few instances for
comparison.

My authorities are, first, Don Juan Eligio de la Rocha’s _Apuntamientos de
la Lengua Mangue, MS._ The author was born in Granada, C. A., June 15,
1815. By profession a lawyer, his taste led him to the study of languages,
and he acquired a fluent knowledge of French, English and Italian. He was
appointed instructor in French and Spanish grammar in 1848 in the
University of Leon, C. A., and ten years later, 1858, published his
_Elementos de Gramática Castellana_ (Leon, 1858, small 4to, pp. 199). His
death occurred in 1873.

While living in Masaya in 1842, he became interested in the surviving
remnants of the Mangues, and undertook to collect materials for a study of
their language. Unfortunately, he never completed these investigations,
and many of the sheets on which he had recorded his notes were scattered.
A few of them, however, were in the hands of his brother, Doctor Don
Jesus de la Rocha, of Granada, who gave Dr. C. H. Berendt an opportunity
to copy them in 1874.

In that same year, 1874, Dr. Berendt collected the last obtainable
fragments of the Mangue. In his (printed) lecture before the American
Geographical Society in 1876, he thus describes his efforts in this
direction, and at the same time points out the localities where the Mangue
speaking populations were located when they first came to the knowledge of
the invading whites:--

    “The Spaniards on entering the present State of Nicaragua from
    Nicoya bay, and then marching through the country, came into contact
    first with the southern section of the Chorotegas or Mangues, as
    they were also called; then with a Nahuatl tribe, whose capital and
    king are mentioned as bearing the name of Nicarao; and after these
    again with Chorotegas or Mangues, who, however, did not occupy the
    whole tract of land up to the Bay of Fonseca, but were again
    separated from the Chorotegas on the shores of that bay by another
    foreign tribe called Maribios. Thus we obtain the three sections
    into which the Chorotegas of Nicaragua were divided at the time of
    the Conquest. Now, their language seemed to me an object worthy of
    having some special attention bestowed upon it--not so much for its
    own sake, but in order that a better understanding might be arrived
    at of the ethnological features of Nicaragua, which, on account of
    an insufficient acquaintance with its actual condition as well as
    with the early writers, and of the rather precarious speculations
    and conjectures of modern authors based upon such scanty knowledge,
    have become greatly confused. Having studied the Chapanecan language
    on a former expedition, and wishing to compare it with the
    Chorotegan, I visited Nicaragua in the year 1874. I found that the
    Indian population near the Nicoya and the Fonseca bays had entirely
    disappeared, and in both districts only met with some local names
    belonging to the Chorotegan language. In the third district also,
    where descendants of the old stock are still living in twelve
    villages around the lakes of Masaya and Apoyo, I was informed that
    no other vestiges of the old idiom were left, the inhabitants
    speaking exclusively the Spanish language. I had, however, the good
    luck to ferret out some old people who still remembered words and
    phrases they had heard in their childhood; and I was enabled to
    collect material sufficient to convince myself and others of the
    identity of this Mangue or Chorotegan idiom with the Chapaneco
    language of Mexico. I was not a moment too early in obtaining this
    information, for the greater number of my informants died while I
    was staying in the country. I still hope that with the knowledge of
    the Chorotegan thus gained in Nicaragua and Chiapas, it may be
    possible to trace their history and descent backwards to one of the
    nations that were living in Anahuac in the earliest times of which
    our records speak.”

The materials were never published by Dr. Berendt, nor, indeed, did the
many other projects which occupied him allow him the leisure to collate
and arrange them. I have taken them from his original notes, often in
pencil and not always perfectly legible. But I believe those here offered
can be depended upon as accurate, and have special value as the sole
remaining vestiges of an idiom now wholly extinct.

_Synonyms._ It will be seen that Berendt speaks of this people as the
“Chorotegas or Mangues.” I have given the origin of these names in the
Introduction to “The Güegüence, a Comedy-Ballet in the Nahuatl-Spanish
Dialect of Nicaragua,” published as Number III, of “Brinton’s Library of
Aboriginal American Literature” (Philadelphia, 1883). They adjoined on the
north-east and south-west the Nahuatl-speaking tribe, who occupied the
narrow strip of land between Lake Nicaragua and the Pacific ocean.

    “They were of one blood and one language, and called themselves
    _Mánkeme_, rulers, masters, which the Spaniards corrupted into
    _Mangues_. The invading Aztecs appear to have split this ancient
    tribe into two fractions, the one driven toward the south, about the
    Gulf of Nicoya, the other northward, on and near Lake Managua, and
    beyond it on Fonseca bay. Probably in memory of this victory, the
    Aztec Nicaraguans applied to them the opprobrious name,
    _Chololteca_, ‘those driven out,’ from the Nahuatl verb _choloa_, in
    its compulsive form _chololtia_, and the suffix, _tecatl_, people;
    which was corrupted by the Spaniards into _Chorotegas_.” (_The
    Güegüence_, Introduction, p. viii.)

In Squier’s work above referred to they are called “Chorotegans or
Dirians.” The latter is from the Mangue _diri_, a hill or mountain, and
was applied to that portion of them who dwelt in the hilly country south
of Masaya.

The Spanish form of their native name is that which I should recommend for
adoption in ethnological works.

_Early Notices._ The old historians and travelers, on whom we depend for
our knowledge of Nicaragua, tell us practically nothing about this
language, and little about the people who spoke it. The chieftain, called
Nicoya, living on the bay of that name, was first visited by Captain Gil
Gonzalez Dávila in 1523. The natives were estimated at about six thousand,
who received the Spaniards in a friendly manner, and gave them
considerable gold.[1]

Oviedo in his _Historia de las Indias_ gives a few words of the language
as follows:

    _mamea_, hell.
    _nam bi_, dog.
    _nam bue_, tiger,

the last two of which correspond to those in later vocabularies.[2]

The Auditor Garcia de Palacio (1576) mentions the Mangue as spoken in
Choluteca, Nicaragua and Costa Rica, in the last mentioned as introduced
from elsewhere.[3] About a century later a colony of Mangues, several
hundred in number, were found by Juan Vazquez de Coronado, almost at the
extreme eastern end of Costa Rica, in the Province of Pacaca.[4] Those on
the Pacific Coast, about the Gulf of Nicoya, were accustomed to cross to
the ocean on the north for trading purposes, and to obtain salt.[5] They
appear to have been a people of moderate cultivation, and rather extended
commercial connections.

_Affiliations._ The Mangue is the mother tongue from which the Chapanec
(or Chiapanec) of Chiapas branched off. The separation from the ancestral
tribe, and the migration from Nicaragua to Chiapas, were distinctly
remembered by the Chapanec off-shoot when first encountered by the whites.
Remesal, in his well-known history, gives a brief but clear account of it.

The date of this occurrence cannot be specifically stated, but its
occasion can be readily surmised. The Mangues at one time occupied the
whole coast from the entrance of the Gulf of Nicoya to Fonseca bay. At a
period which we may locate some time in the fourteenth century, a large
colony of Aztecs descended the coast and seized the strip between Lake
Nicaragua and the Pacific, thus splitting the Mangues in two, and driving
a large portion of them out of their homes. Some of these wanderers
remained with their relatives, but one body of them marched north and west
until they reached a lofty peak on the Rio Grande in Central Chiapas,
where they constructed a formidable fortress, and became the terror of
their Nahuatl-speaking neighbors.[6]

No connection has been demonstrated between the Mangue (or Chapanec), and
any other North American language, although owing to the liberal exertions
of M. Alphonse Pinart, we have now in print and easily procurable, a
grammar and a number of texts of the Chapanec dialect.[7]

A comparison, the partial results of which I have previously published,
proves that the differences between the Chapanec and Mangue are slight and
unimportant, and for purposes of collation with other stocks the two may
be looked upon as identical.

In the Introduction to “The Güegüence,” I pointed out some singular
coincidences between the Mangue and the Aymara of Peru. Further
examination of the two tongues has not added to the list given, and has
weakened the belief I entertained of some possible connection in the past
between them.

I take this occasion to point out an error which has crept into several
philological works, that of confounding the Mangue with the Nagrandan of
Nicaragua. Thus, Francisco Pimentel, in his work on the languages of
Mexico, falls into the capital mistake of declaring the Chapanec of
Chiapas to be allied to the Nagrandan of Nicaragua; and to prove his
assertion, gives a list of alleged Nagrandan words, all of which belong to
the Mangue tongue![8]

The same confusion marks an attempt of Mr. Hyde Clark, of London, to
bring into relation “the Masaya language of Nicaragua with the Sioux
language.” The words he quotes as from Masaya are all from the Nagrandan
of Subtiaba, near Leon. There is really no relationship between the
Nagrandan and Mangue, and although Dr. Latham has attempted to indicate
some few analogies,[9] they must be deemed quite accidental.

A comparison of about 125 words of the Mangue with the Mixteca, which I
find among the Berendt MSS., reveals only about half a dozen similarities,
all apparently accidental.

_Phonetics._ The Mangue words in this paper are principally in letters
with the Spanish powers, some of the semi-vowels being in smaller type.
The _h_ is pronounced as an aspirate, and is equivalent to the _j_, which
has its aspirated Spanish value.

All syllables are open; that is, they all end in a vowel sound. Thus
_nimbu_, water, is to be divided _ni-mbu_. In this respect it resembles
the Cherokee, the Japanese, etc.

Dr. Berendt stated that the Chapanec dialect was the most difficult of any
American language he had ever studied, on account of the obscurity and
uncertainty of its sounds. It is greatly syncopated, and terminal
syllables are often pronounced in so low a tone that they escape the
unpracticed ear. The vowels are not distinct, and many of the consonants
are “alternating” as it is called, that is, one may be substituted for
another without altering the meaning of the word. Thus, evil spirit
(_demonio_) may be either _tixämbi´_ or _sisaⁱmbᵘi_, these two being the
same word pronounced indifferently, either way, by the same individual.
This is by no means without parallel in American languages.

The curious frequency in the Mangue of the “resonants” _n_ and _m_ will
strike every observer. This is also the case in the Chapanec. Albornoz
regards it as a phonetic phenomenon only, and remarks, “Whenever a word
begins with _b_, _g_, _y_ or _d_, an _n_ must be written before it, which
is pronounced with the word itself.” Dr. Berendt calls it an “article”
which appears as _n_, _na_, _ni_, or _m_, especially before the letter
_b_. As such, I may suggest its similarity to the Nahuatl _in_, and the
Othomi _na_, both of which are demonstratives worn down almost to
articles.

There is a similar resonant nasal in various South American tongues,
especially the Tupi-Guarani dialects of Brazil. It appears most frequently
before the consonants _b_ and _d_. Its peculiarity is that it is not an
expiratory sound, but a soft _inspirate_, and as such is claimed by Dr.
Nogueira to be a phonetic phenomenon confined exclusively to American
tongues.[10] I have been unable to decide from the descriptions within my
reach of the Chapanec phonetics, whether the initial resonant is an
inspirate, and I would call the attention of travelers to this interesting
point.

In addition to this simple resonant prefix there are a number of particles
beginning either with _n_ or _m_, which are added to indicate the absolute
or independent form of the noun, that is, to characterize it when not
attached to a personal possessive pronoun. Of these Albornoz gives
fourteen for the singular, and seven for the plural. This will explain the
striking prevalence of words beginning with these letters in the
vocabulary.

Accent is of the utmost importance in both these dialects, and the
identity to the eye of various words as _nyujmi_, ear and smoke, arises
from absence of proper accent marks in my authorities. The words for bird,
snake and flower are the same; but Albornoz gives this very example to
illustrate the importance of accent, _nolō_, a snake, _nolô_, a flower.
Unfortunately, none of my authorities employ any accentual mark but the
acute, and this appears to be syllabic. A vowel written above the line of
the word, in Berendt’s MSS., signifies a semi-vowel.

_Structure._ The general structure of the Mangue was clearly polysynthetic
and incorporative in a marked degree. In its grammar it was no doubt
identical in all essential points with the Chapanec, about which, as above
mentioned, we have considerable information in published sources. Nominal
and verbal forms are defined by the categories of animate and inanimate
genera, a distinction which is to a certain extent purely grammatical, as
for instance, a book is considered animate, and a table inanimate
(Albornoz, _Gram._, cap. xiii). The first person plural has an inclusive
and exclusive form. Adjectives usually, but not always, follow the nouns.
Plurals are frequently formed by simply lengthening the terminal vowel
sound.

_The Vocabulary._ The words in the vocabulary have been obtained from the
Rocha and Berendt MSS. Where these two authorities differ the variants are
indicated by the affixed initials, R. and B. All words quoted for the sake
of comparison from Squier, are marked by an affixed S. The observations,
explanations and other remarks attached to the words and phrases are my
own. The comparative expressions taken from the Chapanec (marked, _Chap._)
are from the printed works above mentioned, or from MS. vocabularies of
various authorship in my possession.

All of Rocha’s words are from the dialect of Masaya; but Dr. Berendt
obtained some at the villages of Masatepec, Niquindomo, and Namotiva´, and
this explains the occasional variants given. The differences, however,
between the speech of these localities was evidently slight.


_Vocabulary: English--Mangue._

Achiote, nariyu. (The _Bixa orellana_, a fruit tree; _achiote_ is
Nahuatl).

Aguacate, nirimo´, narimu. (Fruit of the _Persea gratissima_).

Ancestor, kopo´. The same as _old_, q. v.

Ancestress, kapoi. Apparently a feminine form of _kopo_, old.

Anona, naria´. Fruit of the _Anona squamosa_.

Ant, an, náju, naᵃ.

Ara, lapa; _Chap._ txapa. The _Ara macao_, of ornithologists.

Arm, ndiro. Compare _hand_, and _finger_. Properly “the upper extremity.”
S. deno. _Chap._ guluᵘa.

Armpit, ngisa. Compare, _beard_. Perhaps “hair of the armpit.”

Armadillo (_Dasypus_), nyuku´. Compare _lizard_.

Ashes, nitsu, nisú.

Atole, nambo. (A dish prepared from maize.)

Bad, gangame, ganyame. Properly _not-good_.

Bark, nansoᵘa´.

Basket, najᵘari.

Bat, nyuta´.

Bean, nyumú.

Beast, nyumbú. Compare _tiger_.

Bear, to (to bear children), pindih.

Beard, gísa.

Bed, nakutá.

Bee, nopopo.

Beetle, nagᵘa.

Belly, ngusi.

Bird, nori, nyuri´. Compare _snake_ and _flower_. _Chap._ nuri.

Bitter, yasi.

Black, nansome.

Blood, nijnyú; S. nenuh.

Blue, nandipame.

Body or Flesh, nimbrome, nampoome.

Bone, nyuⁱ.

Bowels, ngita.

Boy, nasome; R. norome; little boy, noromiñamu.

Branch (of a tree) ndiro nya; = “its arm, tree.”

Brandy, nimbuyasi; = “water, bitter.”

Brave, pusitⁱu.

Brook, nanda.

Brother, manku, mambo.

Brother, younger, mambo nyamo nasome.

Buttocks, bojoⁱ; nbasi, basti´.

Cacao, nyúsi.

Camote, yujmi (an edible root).

Cane, sugar, niriómbome.

Cantaro (a water jar), natiyojpo.

Casava, see _yuca_.

Cat, misa, mixa.

Cat, wild, misa se nirome; = “cat of the forest.”

Chachalaca, tásara. A kind of partridge called, in Nahuatl,
_chachalacatl_.

Chalchihuitl (a green stone, Nah.), nyu se rayo; the last word, _rayo_, is
Spanish, and the expression means “stone of the lightning,” the belief
being that these stones are thunderbolts.

Cheek, girote. Compare _face_.

Chief, ruler, mánkeme. _Chap._ manaχämä, from _χimá_, the head. See _The
Güegüence_, Introd., p. viii, note.

Chief, female, najyumbu.

Child, nasungi.

Chile (a sort of red pepper), ningi.

Chocolate, nimbu nyusi; = “water-cacao.”

Chocollo (a bird), naturi.

Church, nakúmbui.

Clay, nambroj.

Clay, potter’s, nambrój se nati; = “clay of jars.”

Cock, a, norijᵘé.

Cockroach, nambisa.

Cocoyol, neme; a species of palm.

Cold, poro´, yoro, oro.

Collar, or necklace, bakoya´jo.

Comal (a dish or plate), nambujyoⁱ.

Come, to, na.

Conch-shell, txote.

Cook, a female, nakaⁱ nakupasi. Comp. _kitchen_.

Corn-field, namasinyu´, ndam bur´rio.

Cotton, naroti´.

Cotton, thread of, tapakúsime naròti.

Dance, to, tasosmo.

Daughter, banya nasinyamo. Comp. _son_ and _girl_.

Daughter-in-law, mbájtioro.

Dead, koⁱjme. Comp. _to die_.

Deaf, gungupajo; = not hearing.

Deer, nyúmba ngami.

Devil, natamasimo.

Die, to, nagaᵃnyu; _imper._ koijme.

Dish from a gourd, nambira. Comp. _water_.

Distant, haⁱtsu.

Door, nya síyu.

Drink, to, _imper._ koi ri (?).

Drum, nyunsú. Comp. _jicara_.

Dog, nyumbi´.

Dog, female, nyumbi nyakaⁱ.

Ear, nyújmi.

Earth, land, nikupu´, nambrome.

Eat, to, nasu, _imper._ koⁱta´.

Egg, nyuga-yori. Comp. _bird_.

Egg-shell, nansoᵘa. Compare _bark_.

Enclosure, mendí.

Enclosure of stone, mendi nyuᵃ.

Excrement, nigᵘa.

Eye, nate.

Face, ngroti. Compare _cheek_.

Father, kᵘé; kújkᵘe; S. gooha. R. coehyo.

Feather, napa yorí.

Female, of animals, nyaka.

Finger, ndiro. Compare _arm_ and _hand_. _Chap._ banya dilá.

Finger nail, monsu´, munsú.

Fire, nyayu, naku; S. nahu.

Fish, nyujú.

Flatus, píjⁱ.

Flea, louse, etc., nyuⁱ.

Flesh, for eating, nampumi.

Flint, nyupa nyugo. Compare _stone_.

Flower, nyuri, niri. Compare _bird_ and _snake_.

Fly, a, nimbrome.

Food, nyumuta. Comp. _bean_.

Foot, ngirá.

Forehead, gula.

Forest, nijome, nmandi.

Fork, a, nya nangu. Compare _house_. Probably the forked stick, which
supports the ridge-pole.

Friend, ngurí; manku. Comp. _brother_.

Frog, natakopó. Comp. _toad_.

Fruit, narime.

Gall, bayatimé.

Gaspar, nyuju yansu. A fish sometimes called the “lizard fish.”

Girl, nasunyamo. R. najiñamu.

God, kupankeme Dio; nikus´pᵘa. (Our Lord.) _Chap._ kopandχame; comp.
_chief_. S. gopahemedeo.

Good, pami, pame, yame.

Great, yokᵘe, yokᵘeme.

Green, apame, yapame.

Guacal (small dish), narí.

Guayabo (a fruit), nikonyo´.

Hair, nimbi´.

Half-breed, nyukúsᵘa.

Hamack, nyu. Comp. _mecate_.

Hand, ndiro. Comp. _arm_ and _finger_. _Chap._ diⁱla.

Hat, nimpe.

Hatchet, nimunguyá.

Hawk, nake´.

He, pron. neje.

Head, ngu´ kimo.

Heart, nambume.

Heaven, sky, nakupᵘi; nakujpu.

Heavy, arime.

Hedge, or fence. See _enclosure_.

Henequen (a fibrous plant), notome.

High, opome.

Hoe, bajarítojo.

Hog, nyuju.

Hog, wild, nyuju mandi. Comp. _forest_.

Honey, nambo´ pu, nombó.

Horn, nimbomo.

Horse, nyumpie´. Comp. _tapir_.

Hot, tsujmu, yátsumu.

House, nangu, nge.

Husband, bohᵘe. Comp. _man_ and _male_.

Iguana, nyumbu. Comp. _animal_, _beast_.

Indian, an, namba´jimo.

Jar, of pottery, nimbúgu.

Jicara (tall jar), nyúnsu.

Kill, to, tambajme.

Kitchen, nakupasi.

Lake, ninda.

Leaf, nyuma´.

Leg, ngiko.

Light, _adj._ ngári me; = not-heavy.

Lightning, kŏyo´mo (?).

Lion, couguar, nyumbú nyangami. Comp. _deer_.

Little, kame; R. ñamu.

Lizard, nyukú.

Low, nyamo. Comp. _small_.

Macana (an iron implement for cutting brush), nampúj.

Mecapal (a net for carrying loads), napalumu.

Machete (a heavy knife), nímbⁱu.

Maize, namá.

Maize, ear of, nyupó.

Maize, cob of, neje´.

Maize, green, nyopome.

Maize, cooked (nistamal), nyu´ritu.

Maize, masa of, nambima.

Male, of animals, jᵘe, fᵘe.

Mamma, su ngitsu, ngisu.

Man (homo), ndijpu. _Chap._ dipaju.

Man (vir), nyugo, nojue, enkaj; S. nuho. _Chap._ nuᵘa.

Mantle, of cotton, nambu sángui; R. nimbu ranguma.

Married man, koipujma nasominyamo.

Married woman, nojí.

Mat, nuri.

Metapail (hand-stone for pounding grain), ndiro nyupa (hand-stone).

Metate (mealing stone, mortar), nyupá; = _stone_.

Mill woman, a, nasinyamo tapa´ kupᵘi.

Mole, nyu´kupu. Comp. _armadillo_.

Money, najmo´. Comp. _silver_.

Monkey, nambi.

Moon, yu. _Chap._ yujú.

Mother, ngumo; nyame; ngimo; S. goomo. R. guirmoh.

Mountain, hill, tiri, diri.

Mouth, nyunsu; R. ñunzu.

Much, pókopi.

Musquito, néju.

Nacatamal (maize cooked with flesh), nyuga mpume. Comp. _tamal_.

Navel, ngutinyamo.

Near, kopunapu.

Neck, nkoⁱ.

Negro, a, nanso´me. Comp. _black_.

Nephew, batsún kényamo.

Nest, ngä. Comp. _house_.

Net (for carrying), niskupu, namu.

Net (for fishing), najkupu; niskupu se yuju.

Night, koyujmi (it is now night).

No, áku.

Nose, nyungú; R. nuñgu.

Old man, kopo´. Comp. _ancestor_.

Old woman, nakaⁱ, naskaⁱme.

Opossum, niyú.

Orphan, butájmu.

Pain, gaime.

Parrot, nimbusojo.

Pearl color (nacar), narimbame.

Pebble, nipa. Comp. _stone_.

Penis, buᵃyore.

Petticoats, nimbusame; nambusangume. Comp. _mantle_.

Pigeon, nyurinyamo.

Pineapple, nindi.

Pinole (maize roasted and pulverized), nambari.

Pisote (a badger?), nyundi.

Plantain, green, nirinte, nikotona.

Plantain, ripe, ndurime.

Plate (of dried gourd), nambira.

Pleiades, the, napopo.

Poor, nambájimo, nambainjume.

Pretty, tapustxuya.

Priest, kuᵘjkᵘé.

Privates (female), sungipᵘai motxo´tete.

Rabbit, nyuku. Comp. _lizard_.

Rain, nimbu. Comp. _water_.

Rat, nangi.

Red, arimbome.

Reed, néjeri.

Rind (peel), nansoᵘa´. Comp. _bark_.

River, neju.

Road, niro.

Roof, nimú, nakamu´.

Room, apartment, nakangu. Comp. _home_.

Rope, string (mecate), nyuⁱ.

Sacate (a species of grass), nimú, nakamo.

Saliva, nimbójmo.

Salt, niri.

Sandal, or moccasin, nyansu, ninsu.

Sapote, red (a fruit), noxa´, nyuxa´.

Scorpion, nyumbukukí.

Sea, nimbu yumbu.

She, pron. neja. See _He_.

Shirt, for men, mboyú.

Shirt, of women, nayu.

Shore, ninda. Comp. _lake_.

Shoulder, inkuⁱ.

Silver, najmo. Comp. _money_.

Sing, to, undamo.

Sister, boronyamo, mambo. Comp. _brother_.

Skin, hide (of animals), nínsu, nansú, nyún su.

Sleep, to, nagu.

Small, txote, nyamo. Comp. _low_.

Smoke, nyujmi; S. nemare.

Snake, nyurí. _Chap._ nulú. Comp. _bird_ and _flower_.

Son, banya.

Son-in-law, ngismó.

Sorcerer, nyuᵘja.

Sour, yagu.

Speak, to, nata, _imper._ papa´me.

Squirrel, naré.

Star, nyutí; R. nuti; S. nuete. _Chap._ nahuiti.

Stone, rock, nyupá (pl. nipa).

Stool, nambu ku ta´.

Sugar, nombó. Comp. _sweet_.

Sun, nyumbᵘi, nomo; S. numbu. _Chap._ mapíju. Comp. _moon_.

Sweet, nombo´.

Tamal (a dumpling of sweetened maize), nyuga.

Tapir, the, nyumpié mandi. Comp. _forest_.

Tear, a, nimbu nate. Comp. _water_ and _eye_.

Tenamaste or cooking stone, hajmi nyugu (three stones), nakupasí (see,
_to cook_), nikusugo´.

Thief, tiposi´tinyo.

Thorn, ni, nindi.

Thunder, koi tapu´meme; lit, “it thunders.”

Thrush, nyújᵘa. A species of _Caprimulgus_.

Tick, nambisá, nansumá.

Tiger, jaguar, nyumbú. Comp. _animal_.

Tiste (a drink of cacao, etc.), nimbyusi. Comp. _water_.

Toad, natakopó.

Tobacco, nyumurime; nimburime; S. nemurema. To smoke tobacco, fasomo nimbu
rimi.

Tomate, naripo.

To-morrow, majimi. Comp. _yesterday_.

Tongue, grijᵘí.

Tooth, niji.

Tortilla, noⁱ.

Totoposte (a kind of corn-bread), nyua yanjí.

Town, namá puma, namépume.

Tree, nya. Comp. _wood_.

Trough, nimbóya. Comp. _water_.

Turtle, of water, nyuka.

Ugly, ganyame. Comp. _bad_.

Unio (the shell so-called), nyukanyamu.

Vapor (mist, steam, etc.), ndipí.

Vase (tinaja), nojpú.

Washwoman, nasinyamo tapapa´poro.

Wasp, najú (?).

Water, nimbú.

Wax, nyu.

Well (noun), kita.

Where? nde.

White, nandirime.

Wife, mboome, njujmi. Comp. _husband_.

Wind, nitiu´; níjtⁱu. S. neshtu.

Woman, noji, nasi.

Wood, nya, nindomi (?).

Yellow, nandiume.

Yes, un; taspo (?).

Yesterday, yajimi.

Yuca (the _Yatropha manihot_), noya, nuya. _Chap._ niya.


_Numerals._

      1. tike.
      2. ha, ja, jami, jojo.
      3. hajmi, jajame.
      4. hahome.
      5. hagujmi.
     10. jendo.
     20. jajué.
    800. jaⁱmbí.


_The Verb “to be,” R._

    I am,           cejo.
    Thou art,       simuh.
    He is,          neje sumu.
    We are,         cis mi muh.


_Pronouns._

    I,              saho, S.
    My,             amba, mba.
    He,             neje, R.
    She,            neja, R.


_Phrases._

    Koi múrio, It is already dawn.

    Koi yujmi, It is already night.

    Koi prijpi, It is already growing dark.

    Koi újumbo, He has already urinated.

    Koi gaimi ndiro, He gave me his hand.

    Koi pajo nama siñú, I am going to die (ya me voy a la muerte).

    Koi-li nimbuyati, I drank some brandy.

    Koi-tā cutaca ñumbi´, I ate like a dog.

    Koi-li gipomo ga muningui, I ate broth with chile.

    Tagüaime ga muñunso yokᵘe, Give me a large jar.

    Tari nimbuin, on güari? Will you drink some tiste, or will you not?

    Oyat us ma? How do you like it (_i. e._, hot or cold)?

    Pókopi ndijpo,    } Many people.
    Taku pámu ndijpú, }

    Koi jini kújkᵘe, His father died.

    Muri kagroⁱ, Here is the old woman.

    Ai nambunú ju, I have a pain in the belly.

    Ni koi sime, You have already bought.

    Pe ya puti nakutá, Go and lie down in the room.

    Tiki numapuna, It is the town.

    Nam bu mejo, His stomach is weak.

    Koi tsujmú nimbu, The water is already warm.

    Koi puró nimbu, The water is already cold.

    Koi piro, He has already come.

    Pami nyumuta, The food is good.

    Cajo rismoh, I am seated.

    Neje zuma rimah, They are lying down.

    Guay cane noy, Give me a piece of tortilla.

    Koi guaja, I have already given you some.

    Garoh, Not yet.

    Ejeh } Take some!
    Uji! }

    Susupusca? } How are you?
    Kuj mi mo? }

    Ko´ mi muya´ i ku? And you, how are you?

    Camo cujmi umyaique, Nasi pujimo camo? There is nothing new; and
    you, how are you?

    Gusapo, Take a seat.

    Nam bro´ gatsuro yaji? Why did you not come yesterday?

    Koi kᵘeme, I was up there.

    Kupa kastai, Señor, Good-by, Señor.

    Nohue opome, A tall man.

    Nya opome, A high tree.

    Nya nyamo, A short tree.

    Nyumbi yokᵘe, A large dog.

    Nyumbi pusitⁱu, A brave dog.

    Kŏyómo nikújᵘi nímbu, With thunder comes rain.

    Koⁱ pirami nimbᵘí, Already comes the rain.

    Tapuko kuno tipo kunyo, Let us go to see the sick man.

    Mundamó, The pigeon sings.

    Nde yat supu is ya? Where are you going?

    Tsupu nekajui, I am going to the garden.

    Munsu supu kujkui, They are (go) lame.

    Ropia, Come here.

    Ropia no somíngamo, Come here and sweep.

    Koi apiñame naturi, The Chocollo (bird) has already cried.

    Koi píndih Juaná, Joanna is with child.

    Pieyas mah, She already was.

    La puta (_Span._) ansu punah, The whore that bore thee.

    Cumbú puy muh, I do not remember.

    Neje rumu coy cuhme, He is already a great man.

    Nis puzu punah? What did she bring forth?

    Naci ñamu, A little girl.

    Taru miro, They are all mine.

    Neja guirmiño, That is my half.

    Niora múta pu ninda? Are you going to the shore?

    Taspo, Yes.

    Ya pu camu, In a little while.

    Mu koi cu pumé, Thou hast already seen it.

    Koi cu pumé, I have already seen it.

    Uño! See!

    Mis upa´? Where are you going?

    Umimo uyako, } We are out of breath.
    Pasi pújimo, }

    Pangare´ manijitaré, Be quiet, I will pay you to-morrow.

    Gugapi, koy ujmi, Let us sleep, it is night.

    Buᵘsi naᵃ, munikako, Get away from here, you son of a devil!

    Nim bu´ tajo pa´yamo? What were you doing by the water?

    Tapame, Be good.

    Motan atima nyumpia, You come on horseback.


_Observations on the Vocabulary._

_Prefixes._--The most frequent prefixes in the vocabulary are _nyu_ and
_nya_. They probably indicate the position of the noun as independent of
expressed possessive relations. In the Chapanec they are also found, but
not so commonly. They do not appear to be classificatory particles, as
they are prefixed to the names of the most diverse objects.

_Generic Names._--These are quite common, as is frequently the case in
American languages, in spite of what has often been said to the contrary.
The word _nyu-mbu_ means any large quadruped; _nyuⁱ_, any insect;
_narimu_, any kind of wild fruit, etc. It must be remembered that the
genera into which individuals are grouped have a widely different
connotation from those to which we are accustomed.

_Cat._--The word for cat, _misa_, seems identical with the Cakchiquel
_mez_. In Chapanec it is _kitu_, reminding one of _kitten_. As the
domestic cat was unknown in America before the discovery, these words can
probably be traced to some European source.

_Color Names._--The color names appear difficult to analyze, and vary from
those in Chapanec. Thus, as given by the various authorities, they are:

                     Mangue,         Chapanec.
    Black,           nanzome, R.     dujamä.
    White,           nandirime, R.   dilimä.
    Yellow,          nandiume, R.    nandikumä.
    Blue or Green, { nandipame, R.   ndipamä.
                   { apame, B.
    Red,             arimbome, B.    nduimä.

In these adjectives the termination _me_ or _mä_ does not belong to the
root. Father Abornoz tells us that this suffix characterizes adjectives in
the singular number, when they qualify a certain class of nouns “in
_tighe_.” (See his _Gram._ p. 15.) The nasal or resonant beginning most of
them is also a mere prefix.

_Proper Names._--But few native families of the Mangue districts of
Nicaragua have retained names drawn from their ancient tongues. In a list
before me of several hundred persons in Masaya and Managua, the only
surnames from the Mangue are _Norori_, _Ñamendi_, _Namullure_, _Putoi_,
_Nionongue_, _Macanche_, and perhaps _Huembes_ and _Piura_. Generally, the
natives adopted Spanish surnames.

On the other hand, a large number of local names, derived from the Mangue
language, on the map of Nicaragua still define the region once occupied by
this nation. Such are _Nindiria_ (from _ninda_, shore, _diri_, hill),
_Nakutiri_ (from _naku_, fire, _diri_, hill), _Monimbe_ (_nimbu_, water,
rain), _Nandasimo_ (_nanda_, brook), Mombonasi (_nasi_, woman), _Masaya_,
_Managua_, _Namotiva_, _Norome_, _Nicoya_, _Oretina_, etc., etc.




FOOTNOTES


[1] Letter of Gil Gonzalez Dávila to the Emperor Charles V, in
_Costa-Rica, Nicaragua y Panama en el Siglo_ xvi, por D. Manuel E. de
Peralta, p. 9 (Madrid, 1833).

[2] _Historia General y Natural de Indias_, Part iii, Lib. iii.

[3] Palacio, _Carta al Rey_, Ed. Squier, p. 20.

[4] See the Report of Coronado in the collection of Peralta above quoted,
p. 777.

[5] Ibid, p. 704.

[6] “Vinieron antiguamente de la Provincia de Nicaragua unas gentes que
cansados de andar y de las descomodades que la peregrinacion trae consigo,
se quedaron en tierra de Chiapa, y poblaron en un peñol aspero orillas de
un Rio Grande que pasa por medio della y fortificaronse alli, porque nunca
se quisieron sujetar á los Reyes de Mejico, antes tenian continuamente
guerra con sus capitanes.” etc. Remesal, _Historia de Chiapa y Guatemala_,
Lib. iv, cap. xiii.

[7] _Arte de la Lengua Chiapeneca._ Por Fray Juan de Albornoz.

_Doctrina Cristiana en Lengua Chiapaneca._ Por Fray Luis Barrientos.

These two publications comprise Vol. i of the _Bibliothèque de
Linguistique et d’Ethnographie Americaines, publiée par_ Alph. L. Pinart
(Paris, 1875).

Dr. Berendt states that the natives pronounce the name of the province
_Chapa_, not _Chiapa_, and that the word is the Mangue _Chapa_, which
means their sacred bird, the Ara or Guacamayo, from which they named their
fortress in the State of Chiapas. Father Juan Nuñez, who was missionary
among them about 1620, and who preached and wrote in their tongue, also
called it “la lengua Chapaneca.” See Brasseur (de Bourbourg),
_Bibliothèque Mexico-Guatemalienne_, pp. 109, 110.

[8] _Cuadro Descriptivo de las Lenguas Indígenas de Mexico_, Tomo iii, p.
559 (Mexico, 1875).

[9] Latham, _Essays, chiefly Philological and Ethnographical_, p. 373
(London, 1880).

[10] See the excellent work of Dr. B. C. A. Nogueira, _Apontamentos sobre
o Abañeênga tambem chamado Guarani ou Tupi_, pp. 56, 57 (Rio Janeiro,
1876).





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Notes on the Mangue: An extinct
Dialect formerly spoken in Nica, by Daniel Garrison Brinton

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK NOTES ON THE MANGUE ***

***** This file should be named 53936-0.txt or 53936-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/3/9/3/53936/

Produced by Mary Glenn Krause, MFR, University of Texas
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
http://www.pgdp.net (This book was produced from scanned
images of public domain material from the Google Books
project.)

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

