The Project Gutenberg EBook of Survey of the High Roads of England and
Wales. Part the First., by Edward Mogg

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.



Title: Survey of the High Roads of England and Wales. Part the First.
       Comprising the counties of Kent, Surrey, Sussex, Hants,
       Wilts, Dorset, Somerset, Devon, and Cornwall. etc.

Author: Edward Mogg

Release Date: March 15, 2018 [EBook #56742]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK SURVEY OF THE HIGH ROADS ***




Produced by Chris Curnow, Harry Lamé and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This
file was produced from images generously made available
by The Internet Archive)









  Transcriber’s Notes

  Text printed in small capitals in the original work has been
  transcribed =between equal signs=, text printed in italics has been
  transcribed _between underscores_. Superscript text is represented as
  ^{text}.

  More Transcriber’s Notes may be found at the end of this text.




[Illustration]




  SURVEY
  OF
  THE HIGH ROADS
  OF
  England and Wales.

  PART THE FIRST.

  COMPRISING THE COUNTIES OF
  KENT, SURREY, SUSSEX, HANTS, WILTS, DORSET, SOMERSET,
  DEVON, AND CORNWALL;
  WITH
  PART OF BUCKINGHAM AND MIDDLESEX.

  _PLANNED ON A SCALE OF ONE INCH TO A MILE._

  EXHIBITING AT ONE VIEW
  THE SEATS OF THE NOBILITY AND GENTRY,
  WHETHER SITUATED ON, OR CONTIGUOUS TO, THE ROAD.

  The various Branches of Roads and Towns to which they lead.

  TOGETHER WITH
  THE ACTUAL DISTANCE OF THE SAME FROM THE MAIN ROAD, RIVERS, NAVIGABLE
  CANALS, RAILWAYS, TURNPIKE GATES, &c. &c.

  ACCOMPANIED BY
  INDEXES,
  _TOPOGRAPHIC AND DESCRIPTIVE_.

  THE WHOLE
  ENRICHED WITH A VARIETY OF VALUABLE AND ORIGINAL INFORMATION.

  ARRANGED BY, AND UNDER THE DIRECTION OF,
  EDWARD MOGG.

  _LONDON:_
  PUBLISHED BY EDWARD MOGG, No. 51, CHARING CROSS.
  1817.




  TO
  HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS
  THE PRINCE REGENT.


=Sir=,

Your Royal Highness having graciously condescended to extend your august
patronage and protection to this work, I cannot present it to the
public, without testifying how deeply sensible I am of this most
gracious mark of your Royal Highness’s approbation.

I am perfectly aware that no merit of the performance can give it
pretensions to so exalted a patronage; yet to whom can this publication
with so much propriety be addressed, as to that illustrious and
magnanimous Prince, who, by his wisdom and councils, during the most
arduous contest in which any nation was ever engaged, preserved us in
the quiet enjoyment of that land, and, under whose auspicious guidance
and government, has been raised to the highest pinnacle of glory that
country, the topography and picturesque beauties of which it is the
principal design of the following pages to illustrate.

That your Royal Highness may long live to be the ornament of society,
the delight and boast of a grateful and admiring nation, is the ardent
wish of,

  Sir,

  Your Royal Highness’s

  most grateful,

  most dutiful,

  and most devoted servant,

  EDWARD MOGG.




ADVERTISEMENT.


In presenting to the Public the first part of this comprehensive work,
embracing the southern division of the Kingdom, the Proprietor indulges
a hope, that while conveying information, he will be found in some
degree to have contributed to the amusement of the traveller.

The gratification derived from an excursion of pleasure does not always
terminate with its performance, but is often produced by reflections
which naturally arise on a subsequent review of past occurrences or
remarkable objects; and which the peculiar construction of this work is
eminently calculated to assist.

In contemplating a new Road, we feel enlivened by anticipation; in the
recollection of an old one, we are led to reflections that equally
interest; and a recurrence to these pages will immediately present to
the reader’s imagination the identical spot, or well known inn, which
from a variety of incidents that occur in the prosecution of a journey,
whether the remembrance be attended with pleasure or accompanied by a
feeling of regret, never fail to leave an indelible impression on the
mind.

It has been justly remarked by an eminent Geographer[1], that the Rivers
of England have never yet been delineated; the same observation may be
applied with equal truth, though still greater regret, with respect to
its Roads, which (on a large scale) yet remain to be illustrated; how
far the present work is likely to succeed in supplying the latter
deficiency, it will remain for the public to decide. It is an object the
Proprietor has long had in contemplation, and has thence been brought to
greater perfection from an attentive observation of circumstances
peculiarly connected with the subject, both in regard to the alteration
of old, and the formation of new Roads, which, by avoiding hills and
shortening distance, will be found to afford such facilities to
travelling as are alone to be experienced on this island: accurately to
delineate improvements so extensive, and which will in vain be sought in
any other publication, are the pages of this work devoted.

  [1] Pinkerton.

To comment on the superiority of the method of delineation here adopted
were superfluous at the present time, when the Proprietor’s pretensions
may be decided by comparison with the performances of predecessors in a
similar course, and when indeed he feels confident of having thus far
accomplished an undertaking, which, whether as referring to originality
or execution, is considerably more entitled to attention than any known
production of its kind; combining means so ample and illustrative, the
Traveller is in possession of information nearly equal to a bird’s-eye
view of the country. The Seats of the Nobility and Gentry are faithfully
described, the names of their several Proprietors have been carefully
attended to, and the arrangement of the whole so constructed as to
render the work at once clear and comprehensive. Simplicity, joined to a
strict accuracy, has been his chief aim, and he is unconscious of having
omitted any thing which could have contributed to render the whole
complete.




TABLE OF ROUTES.


To simplify as much as possible, and to facilitate the understanding of
this work, the following =Table of Routes= is given; describing the page
at which the commencement of each Road will be found, and which, where
the same is not continued in a regular succession, will conduct, by
reference to the pages, the eye of the reader with the most perfect ease
to every place of consequence contained in the work.

  LONDON to DOVER,--_pages_ 1 _to_ 10.

  LONDON to MARGATE,--_pages_ 1 _to_ 8, _to_ =Canterbury=; thence to
  Margate, _pages_ 11 _and_ 12.

  LONDON to RAMSGATE,--_pages_ 1 _to_ 8, _to_ =Canterbury=; thence to
  =Monkton=, where the Road turns off, _pages_ 11 _and_ 12; thence to
  =Ramsgate=, _page_ 13.

  LONDON to HASTINGS,--_pages_ 15 _to_ 22.

  LONDON to CANTERBURY,--_pages_ 1 _to_ 8.

  LONDON to TUNBRIDGE WELLS,--_pages_ 15 _to_ 18, _to_ =Tunbridge=;
  thence to =Tunbridge Wells=, _page_ 14.

  LONDON to PORTSMOUTH,--_pages_ 23 _to_ 32.

  LONDON to CHICHESTER, by =Midhurst=,--_pages_ 23 _to_ 27, _to_
  =Milford=; thence to =Chichester=, _pages_ 33 _to_ 36.

  LONDON to CHICHESTER, by =Petworth=,--_pages_ 23 _to_ 27, _to_
  =Milford=; thence to =Chichester=, _pages_ 37 _to_ 40.

  LONDON to BOGNOR, by =Chichester=, (_to_ =Chichester= _as
  above_)--thence to =Bognor=, _page_ 41.

  LONDON to BOGNOR, by =Eartham=,--_to_ =Milford=, _pages_ 23 _to_ 27;
  thence to =Benges Wood=, where the Road divides, _pages_ 37 _to_ 40;
  thence to =Bognor=, by =Eartham=, _page_ 42.

  LONDON to ARUNDEL,--_pages_ 23 _to_ 27, _to_ =Milford=; thence to
  =Petworth=, _pages_ 37 _to_ 38; thence to =Arundel=, _pages_ 43 _and_
  44.

  LONDON to BRIGHTON, through =Sutton= and =Ryegate=,--_pages_ 45 _to_
  51.

  LONDON to BRIGHTON, through =Croydon=,--_pages_ 52 _to_ 54, to
  =Ryegate=; thence to =Brighton=, _pages_ 47 _to_ 51.

  LONDON to BRIGHTON, by =Lewes=,--to _Purley House_, _pages_ 52 _and_
  53; thence to =Brighton=, _pages_ 55 _to_ 60.

  LONDON to WORTHING,--_to_ =Tooting=, _page_ 45; thence to =Worthing=,
  _pages_ 61 _to_ 67.

  LONDON to SOUTHAMPTON, by =Basingstoke=,--_pages_ 69 _to_ 79.

  LONDON to SOUTHAMPTON, through =Farnham=,--to the _Golden Farmer_,
  _pages_ 69 _to_ 72; thence to =Winchester=, _pages_ 80 _to_ 84; thence
  to =Southampton=, _pages_ 78 _and_ 79.

  LONDON to POOLE, through =Romsey=,--_pages_ 69 _to_ 77, to
  =Winchester=; thence to =Poole=, _pages_ 85 _to_ 90.

  LONDON to POOLE, by =Southampton=, (_to_ =Southampton= _as
  above_)--thence to the 82nd _Milestone_, _page_ 91; thence to =Poole=,
  _page_ 87 _to_ 90.

  LONDON to LYMINGTON, (_to_ =Southampton= _as above_)--thence to
  =Totton=, _page_ 91; thence to =Lymington=, _pages_ 92 _and_ 93.

  LONDON to CHRISTCHURCH,--_to_ =Winchester=, _pages_ 69 _to_ 77; thence
  to =Ringwood=, _pages_ 85 _to_ 88; thence to =Christchurch=, _page_
  94.

  LONDON to GOSPORT,--_pages_ 69 _to_ 72, to the _Golden Farmer_; thence
  to =Alton=, _pages_ 80 _to_ 82; thence to =Gosport=, _pages_ 95 _to_
  98.

  LONDON to EXETER, through =Andover=, =Salisbury=, =Blandford=, and
  =Dorchester=,--_to_ =Basingstoke=, _pages_ 69 _to_ 75; thence to
  =Exeter=, _pages_ 99 _to_ 116.

  LONDON to PLYMOUTH and FALMOUTH, (_to_ =Exeter= _as above_)--thence to
  =Plymouth=, _pages_ 117 _to_ 122; thence to =Falmouth=, _pages_ 123
  _to_ 130.

  LONDON to EXETER, through =Stockbridge=, =Salisbury=, and
  =Shaftesbury=,--_to_ =Basingstoke=, _pages_ 69 _to_ 75; thence to
  =Axminster=, _pages_ 131 _to_ 144; thence to =Exeter=, _pages_ 113
  _to_ 116.

  LONDON to FALMOUTH, through =Launceston=, (_to_ =Exeter= _as
  above_)--thence to =Truro=, _pages_ 147 _to_ 158; thence to
  =Falmouth=, _pages_ 129 _and_ 130.

  LONDON to EXETER, through =Andover=, commonly called the New
  Road,--_to_ =Basingstoke=, _pages_ 69 _to_ 75; thence to =Andover=,
  _pages_ 99 _to_ 101; thence to =Honiton=, _pages_ 159 _to_ 170; thence
  to =Exeter=, _pages_ 114 _to_ 116.

  LONDON to WEYMOUTH,--_to_ =Basingstoke=, _pages_ 69 _to_ 75; thence to
  =Dorchester=, _pages_ 99 _to_ 109; thence to =Weymouth=, _page_ 171.

  LONDON to BRUTON,--_to_ =Basingstoke=, _pages_ 69 _to_ 75; thence to
  =Andover=, _pages_ 99 _to_ 101; thence to the 98th _Milestone_ on the
  Exeter Road, _pages_ 159 _to_ 163; thence to =Bruton=, _pages_ 172
  _and_ 173.

  LONDON to BATH and EXETER, by =Calne= and =Chippenham=,--_to_
  =Hounslow=, _pages_ 69 _and_ 70; thence to =Bath= and =Exeter=,
  _pages_ 174 _to_ 197.

  LONDON to BATH and BRISTOL, by =Devizes=,--_to_ =Hounslow=, _pages_ 69
  _and_ 70; thence to _Beckhampton Inn_, _pages_ 174 _to_ 184; thence to
  =Bath= and =Bristol=, _pages_ 198 _to_ 203.

  BATH to BRIGHTON, through =Warminster=, =Salisbury=, and
  =Romsey=,--_pages_ 204 _to_ 219.

  BATH to BRIGHTON, through =Salisbury= and =Southampton=,--_pages_ 204
  _to_ 211, to =Romsey=; thence through =Southampton= to =Cosham=,
  _pages_ 220 _to_ 223; thence to =Brighton=, _pages_ 214 _to_ 219.

       *       *       *       *       *

_For the finding of any Place not contained in this Table see =General
Index= at the end._


[Illustration: 1 2

_Published by E. Mogg June 1^{st}. 1814._

_=London to Dover=_

measured from London Bridge.]

[Illustration: 3 4

_Published by E. Mogg June 1^{st}. 1814._

_=London to Dover=_

measured from London Bridge]

[Illustration: 5 6

_Published by E. Mogg June 1^{st} 1814._

_=London to Dover=_

measured from London Bridge]

[Illustration: 7 8

_Published by E. Mogg June 1^{st} 1814._

_=London to Dover=_

measured from London Bridge]

[Illustration: 9 10

_=London to Dover=_

measured from London Bridge]

[Illustration: 11 12

{N.B. _For the continuation of the Road from_ Canterbury _to_ London
_see Page 8_.}

_=London to Margate=_

measured from London Bridge]

[Illustration: 13 14

{N.B. _For the continuation of this Road to_ London _see Page 12_.}

London to Ramsgate

London to Tunbridge Wells

measured from London Bridge]

[Illustration: 15 16

_=London to Hastings=_

measured from London Bridge]

[Illustration: 17 18

_=London to Hastings=_

measured from London Bridge]

[Illustration: 19 20

_=London to Hastings=_

measured from London Bridge]

[Illustration: 21 22

_=London to Hastings=_

measured from London Bridge]

[Illustration: 23 24

_=London to Portsmouth=_]

[Illustration: 25 26

_=London to Portsmouth=_]

[Illustration: 27 28

_=London to Portsmouth=_]

[Illustration: 29 30

_=London to Portsmouth=_]

[Illustration: 31 32

_=London to Portsmouth=_]

[Illustration: 33 34

{_For the continuation of this Road to_ London _see Page 27_.}

London to Chichester by Midhurst.]

[Illustration: 35 36

London to Chichester by Midhurst.]

[Illustration: 37 38

{_For the continuation of this Road to_ London _see Page 27_.}

London to Chichester by Petworth.]

[Illustration: 39 40

London to Chichester by Petworth.]

[Illustration: 41 42

{_For the continuation of this Road to_ London _see Page 40_.}

London to Bognor by Chichester and by Eartham.]

[Illustration: 43 44

{_For the continuation of this Road to_ London _see Page 38_.}

_=London to Arundel=_]

[Illustration: 45 46

_=London to Brighton=_

measured from Westminster Bridge]

[Illustration: 47 48

_=London to Brighton=_

measured from Westminster Bridge]

[Illustration: 49 50

_=London to Brighton=_

measured from Westminster Bridge]

[Illustration: 51 52

_=London to Brighton=_

measured from Westminster Bridge

measur’d from the Standard in Cornhill]

[Illustration: 53 54

_=London to Brighton=_

measured from the Standard in Cornhill]

[Illustration: 55 56

_For the continuation of this Road to_ London _see Pa. 53_.

_=London to Brighton=_

measured from the Standard in Cornhill.]

[Illustration: 57 58

_=London to Brighton=_

measured from the Standard in Cornhill.]

[Illustration: 59 60

_=London to Brighton=_

measured from the Standard in Cornhill.]

[Illustration: 61 62

_For the continuation of this Road to_ London, _see Pa. 45_.

_=London to Worthing=_

measured from Westminster Bridge]

[Illustration: 63 64

_=London to Worthing=_

measured from Westminster Bridge]

[Illustration: 65 66

_=London to Worthing=_

measured from Westminster Bridge.]

[Illustration: 67 68

_=London to Worthing=_

measured from Westminster Bridge.]

[Illustration: 69 70

_=London to Southampton=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner]

[Illustration: 71 72

_=London to Southampton=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner]

[Illustration: 73 74

_=London to Southampton=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner]

[Illustration: 75 76

_=London to Southampton=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner]

[Illustration: 77 78

_=London to Southampton=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner]

[Illustration: 79 80

{_For the continuation of this Road to London, see page 72_.}

_=London to Southampton=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner]

[Illustration: 81 82

_=London to Southampton=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner]

[Illustration: 83 84

_=London to Southampton=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner]

[Illustration: 85 86

{_For the continuation of this Road to_ London, _see pa. 77. or 84._}

_=London to Poole=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner.]

[Illustration: 87 88

_=London to Poole=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner.]

[Illustration: 89 90

_=London to Poole=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner.]

[Illustration: 91 92

{_For the continuation of this Road to_ London, _see Pa. 79_.}

{_For the continuation of this Road to_ London, _see Pa. 91_.}

London to Poole, _contin^{d}._ Pa. 87.

London to Lymington.

measured from Hyde Park Corner.]

[Illustration: 93 94

London to Lymington.

{_For the continuation of this Road to_ London, _see Pa. 88_.}

Ringwood to Christchurch.

measured from Hyde Park Corner.]

[Illustration: 95 96

_For the continuation of this Road to_ London, _see pa. 82_.

_=London to Gosport=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner]

[Illustration: 97 98

_=London to Gosport=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner]

[Illustration: 99 100

_For the continuation of this Road to_ London, _see pa. 75_.

_=London to Exeter=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner.]

[Illustration: 101 102

_=London to Exeter=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner.]

[Illustration: 103 104

_=London to Exeter=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner.]

[Illustration: 105 106

_=London to Exeter=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner.]

[Illustration: 107 108

_=London to Exeter=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner.]

[Illustration: 109 110

_=London to Exeter=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner.]

[Illustration: 111 112

_=London to Exeter=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner.]

[Illustration: 113 114

_=London to Exeter=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner.]

[Illustration: 115 116

_=London to Exeter=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner.]

[Illustration: 117 118

_=London to Plymouth=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner.]

[Illustration: 119 120

_=London to Plymouth=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner.]

[Illustration: 121 122

_=London to Plymouth=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner.]

[Illustration: 123 124

_=London to Falmouth=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner.]

[Illustration: 125 126

_=London to Falmouth=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner]

[Illustration: 127 128

_=London to Falmouth=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner]

[Illustration: 129 130

_=London to Falmouth=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner]

[Illustration: 131 132

_For the continuation of this Road to_ London _see pa. 75_.

_=London to Exeter=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner.]

[Illustration: 133 134

_=London to Exeter=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner.]

[Illustration: 135 136

_=London to Exeter=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner.]

[Illustration: 137 138

_=London to Exeter=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner.]

[Illustration: 139 140

_=London to Exeter=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner]

[Illustration: 141 142

_=London to Exeter=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner]

[Illustration: 143 144

_=London to Exeter=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner]

[Illustration: 145 146

_=London to Exeter=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner]

[Illustration: 147 148

_For the continuation of this Road to_ London _see Pa. 116_.

_=London to Falmouth=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner.]

[Illustration: 149 150

_=London to Falmouth=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner.]

[Illustration: 151 152

_=London to Falmouth=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner.]

[Illustration: 153 154

_=London to Falmouth=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner.]

[Illustration: 155 156

_=London to Falmouth=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner]

[Illustration: 157 158

_=London to Falmouth=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner]

[Illustration: 159 160

_For the continuation of this Road to_ London _see Pa. 101_.

_=London to Exeter=_

measured from Hyde park Corner]

[Illustration: 161 162

_=London to Exeter=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner]

[Illustration: 163

_=London to Exeter=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner]

[Illustration: 164 165

_=London to Exeter=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner]

[Illustration: 166 167

_=London to Exeter=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner]

[Illustration: 168 169

_=London to Exeter=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner]

[Illustration: 170 171

_=London to Exeter=_

_=London to Weymouth=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner]

[Illustration: 172 173

_For the continuation of this Road to_ London _see Pa. 163_.

_=London to Bruton=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner]

[Illustration: 174 175

_For the continuation of this Road to_ London _see Pa. 70_.

_=London to Bath=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner]

[Illustration: 176 177

_=London to Bath=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner]

[Illustration: 178 179

_=London to Bath=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner]

[Illustration: 180 181

_=London to Bath=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner]

[Illustration: 182 183

_=London to Bath=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner]

[Illustration: 184 185

_=London to Bath=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner]

[Illustration: 186 187

_=London to Bath and Exeter=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner]

[Illustration: 188 189

_=London to Exeter=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner]

[Illustration: 190 191

_=London to Exeter=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner]

[Illustration: 192 193

_=London to Exeter=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner]

[Illustration: 194 195

_=London to Exeter=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner]

[Illustration: 196 197

_=London to Exeter=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner]

[Illustration: 198 199

_For the continuation of this Road to_ London _see Pa. 184_.

_=London to Bath=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner]

[Illustration: 200 201

_=London to Bath=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner]

[Illustration: 202 203

_=London to Bristol=_

measured from Hyde Park Corner]

[Illustration: 204 205

_=Bath to Brighton=_

measured from the Market House, Bath.]

[Illustration: 206 207

_=Bath to Brighton=_

measured from the Market House, Bath.]

[Illustration: 208 209

_=Bath to Brighton=_

measured from the Market House, Bath.]

[Illustration: 210 211

_=Bath to Brighton=_

measured from the Market House, Bath.]

[Illustration: 212 213

_=Bath to Brighton=_

measured from the Market House, Bath.]

[Illustration: 214 215

_=Bath to Brighton=_

measured from the Market House, Bath.]

[Illustration: 216 217

_=Bath to Brighton=_

measured from the Market House, Bath.]

[Illustration: 218 219

_=Bath to Brighton=_

measured from the Market House, Bath.]

[Illustration: 220 221

_For the continuation of this Road to_ Bath _see Pa. 211_.

_=Bath to Brighton=_

measured from the Market House Bath]

[Illustration: 222 223

_=Bath to Brighton=_

measured from the Market House Bath]




  INDEX
  TO THE
  COUNTRY SEATS.


_In this Index the Name of every Possessor of a Seat is referred to, as
well as the Name of the Seat itself, together with a Description of the
most remarkable._


A.

=Abbey, the=, 173.

Abbot, Right Hon. Charles, 57. (_see Kiddbrook_)

Ackland, Sir T. D. 196, 197. (_see Killerton Park_)

A’Court, Sir Wm. 206. (_see Heytesbury Park_)

A’Dair, ---- Esq. 194. (_see Heatherton Park_)

Adam, W. Esq. 52. (_see Mount Nod Farm_)

=Alderbury House=, 209.

=Amfield House=, 85.

Amherst, Lord, 17. (_see Montreal_)

=Amport Park=, 159.

Andrews, Sir Joseph, 180. (_see Shaw House_)

Angerstein, J. J. Esq. 1. (_see Woodlands_)

Anglesea, Marquis of, (_see Earl of Uxbridge_) 140. (_see Stalbridge
Park_)

=Angmering Park=, 217.

=Anthony House=, 123, the seat of the Right Hon. R. P. Carew, Esq. M. P.
is a modern building, desirably situated on the south side of the Lyhner
river. It contains a collection of old portraits, and some paintings.

Arden, Lord, 47. (_see Nork House_)

Arundell, Lord, 138. (_see Wardour Castle_)

=Arundel Park=, 44, 217, the magnificent seat of the Duke of Norfolk.
This castle stands on a hill, at the southern extremity of an
extensive, well-wooded, and beautiful park. The original, which was very
ancient (mentioned in the will of Alfred the Great), and greatly
delapidated by the unsparing hand of time, has been recently repaired in
the most costly and elegant manner, in the gothic style, at a vast
expence, by the late Duke. This spot has the pre-eminent privilege of
conferring the dignity of Earl, without creation, on whosoever possesses
it; a privilege not enjoyed by any other place in the kingdom.

Arundel Castle stands on an elevated situation, its foundation being a
steep circular knoll, formed partly by nature, and partly by art. From
the castle, the Isle of Wight is visible. The country towards the sea is
low and flat, and it is supposed that the sea once washed the walls of
this edifice, anchors and other marine implements having been found near
it. The park and views from thence comprise a great variety of
picturesque and beautiful scenery.

To attempt a particular description of this truly magnificent mansion,
in the circumscribed limits of this work, is impossible.

The exterior presents a singularly beautiful, imposing and majestic
appearance, and the interior arrangements are contrived with every
variety of taste, elegance, and propriety, many of the apartments being
superbly furnished and decorated with valuable paintings.

=Ash Park=, 99.

=Ashdown Park=, 58.

=Ashland House=, 213.

=Ashtead Park=, 62, the seat of R. Howard, Esq. consists of about 140
acres, enclosed with a brick wall. The church stands in the park, and
near it stood the old mansion, immediately contiguous to the site of
which is erected the present elegant residence. The stables are very
magnificent.

Austins, F. M. Esq. 18. (_see Kippington_)

=Avington Park=, 84, the seat of Earl Temple. The mansion is chiefly
built of brick, and is situated in a well-planted valley, surrounded
with high downs, forming a singular and pleasing contrast. Some of the
apartments are elegantly fitted up, and enriched by a choice collection
of paintings. The park is near three miles in circumference, well
diversified, containing some fine old timber, and has a handsome
ornamental piece of water before the house.

=Avisford House=, 217.

Aylesbury, Earl of, 182. (_see Savernake Lodge_)


B.

Bacon, ---- Esq. 180. (_see Benham Place_)

=Badworth Park=, 217.

=Bagshot Park=, 72. H. R. H. the Duke of Gloucester. The house stands in
the centre of a park, upwards of three miles in circumference.

=Bailbrook House=, 187, 201.

=Bake=, 124.

=Bambridge=, 78.

Bamfylde, G. Esq. 197. (_see Poltimore House_)

Banks, Sir Joseph, 70. (_see Spring Grove_)

=Bannister’s Lodge=, 220.

Barclay, G. Esq. 63. (_see Burfoot Lodge_)

Barfoot, ---- Esq. 97. (_see Midlington Place_)

Baring, Sir Thomas, 76. (_see Stratton Park_)

=Barnfield=, 88.

=Barton Court=, 181, the seat of C. Dundas, Esq. The house is a good
brick building, with wings, pleasantly situated on a branch of the
Kennet, and protected on the north side by rows of stately trees.

Barton, ---- Esq. 220. (_see Roundham House_)

=Basing Park=, 95.

Batchelor, Major, 185.

Batt, I. T. Esq. 209. (_see New Hall_)

=Battle Abbey=, 22, the seat of Sir Godfrey Webster, is situated on a
gentle rise, with a delightful sweep before it of meadows and woods,
bounded by woody hills, which form a valley, winding towards Hastings
and the sea. The ruins of this once magnificent structure, bear ample
testimony of the scale of the establishment, their circuit embracing
nearly a mile. The remains occupy nearly three sides of a long square;
the middle side is converted into a modern habitation. The grand
entrance, facing the town, is a large square building, embattled at the
top with a handsome octagon tower at each corner, composing a very rich
and elegant piece of gothic architecture. The side of the square,
opposite to the gateway, consists of two long low parallel walls; the
remaining side forms the dwelling house. Some of these ruins are
interesting; but the greater part have been destroyed or defaced by
modern alterations.

Bazalgette, ---- Esq. 79.

=Bear Place=, 177, the seat of Sir M. Ximenes, is an elegant modern
house, with wings, delightfully situated on an elevated spot, in a
pleasant woodland country. A ridge of hills screen it on the north; a
pleasing variety of inequalities, tufted with woods, compose its
grounds, and the views towards the south and east are open and
extensive.

=Beauport=, 22, the seat of Sir James Bland Burgess, Bart. so named by
its late possessor, Gen. James Murray, after Beauport, near Quebec, in
Canada, at the reduction of which he acted a distinguished part. It is a
handsome modern edifice, built of stone, and, from its situation on an
eminence, commands magnificent sea views: from hence, on a clear day,
Boulogne and Calais are distinctly visible.

Bebb, ---- Esq. 180. (_see Donnington Grove_)

=Beckenham Place=, 16, the seat of John Cator, Esq. is a handsome
building, commanding a beautiful, though not extensive prospect.

Beckford, William, Esq. 163. (_see Fonthill Abbey_)

=Bedhampton Place=, 214.

=Beechworth Castle=, 63, the seat of Henry Peters, Esq. The mansion is
old, situated on the site of an ancient castle, of which it once formed
a part, on the bank of the river Mole: great improvements have been made
by the present occupier. The park contains some noble timber. The outer
park is skirted with chesnut-trees, of a remarkably large growth; and
the inner, in which the house is situated, has two fine avenues, one of
elms, and another, 350 yards in length, composed of limes of an
extraordinary size.

=Bell Vue=, 130.

=Belle Vue=, 79, 91, 221, the seat of Josiah Jackson, Esq. This
delightful spot is situated near Southampton, on the west side of the
river Itchen. The house, a beautiful modern edifice, commands a most
exquisite prospect; the shrubberies and gardens are tastefully arranged,
which, together with a spacious green-house and hot-houses, contain a
great variety of choice plants.

=Belmont=, 96.

=Benham Place=, 180, the seat of ---- Bacon, Esq. The entrance to the
park from the high road, has a handsome lodge on each side; a spacious
road from thence through a wood leads to the open grounds, where a
variety of pleasing views immediately present themselves. On the south,
beyond the vale, through which, in meandering mazes, glides the limpid
Kennet, a fine prospect of Hampsted Marshal Park presents itself. The
grounds on this side are agreeably diversified in appearance, richly
decorated with wood and water, which objects are most delightfully
distributed over verdant meadows by the plaistic hand of nature, forming
a most enchanting assemblage of sylvan beauties. On the west are high
grounds, crowned with extensive woods, with the bold projecting tracts
of the Wiltshire Downs in the distance. The view towards the east has
also equal claims to attention; a large and well-cultivated district
thence appearing in lovely contrast to the view. The mansion is regular,
of the Ionic order, composed of free stone, having an elegant portico on
the south front. It stands on a sloping bank, amidst a most charming
grove of trees of various coloured foliage. A handsome sheet of water,
partaking of all the crystal beauties of its parent stream, the Kennet,
flows before the mansion, over which stands a bridge of three arches,
built in the Chinese style. The grounds are judiciously ornamented with
woods, and the whole presents a combination of simplicity and beauty.

Bently, T. Esq. 4. (_see the Hermitage_)

Benyon, R. Esq. 178. (_see Englefield House_)

Berkeley, Lady, 174. (_see Cranford Park_)

Besborough, Earl of, 24. In this house are some valuable antiquities,
particularly the celebrated trunk of a Venus, from the collection of
Baron Stosch; and a bust of Demosthenes, by Benvenuto Cellini; with some
good pictures, among which are, the Interment of a Cardinal, by John ab
Eyck, the first painter in oil colours; also portraits, by Rubens and
Holbein.

=Bevis Mount=, 221, the seat of H. Hulton, Esq. derives its name from
the celebrated Sir Bevois, the hero of Southampton. It was originally a
vast pile of earth thrown up for defence, which is now laid out in
pleasure grounds of the most tasteful description, the effect of which
is greatly heightened by its situation, the tide, at high water, forming
a beautiful bay at the foot of the eminence. This was once the residence
of Southeby the poet.

Biddulph, John, Esq. 39. (_see Burton Park_)

=Bistern House=, 94.

=Bittern Grove=, 221.

=Black Brook=, 222.

=Blacklands=, 184, the seat of John Merrywether, Esq. This seat the
present possessor has greatly improved: the grounds abound with wood,
and display much picturesque scenery.

Blake, ---- Esq. 221. (_see Merry Oak Farm_)

Blagrave, ---- Esq. 178. The seat of this gentleman is a handsome
regular structure, with wings, most advantageously situated in a
pleasant and tastefully diversified park, agreeably embellished with
gently rising lawns, and trees of various foliage, grouped, and
otherwise most judiciously arranged, by which means the north front is
rendered perfectly secure from the chilling blasts incidental to that
quarter. It is famous for its fine venison.

Bland Burgess, Sir James, 22. (_see Beauport_)

Bland, ---- Esq. 62. (_see Randall House_)

Blandford, Marquis of. (_see Duke of Marlboro’_) 177. (_see White
Knights and Sion Hill_)

=Blue Hayes=, 116.

=Bolderwood Lodge=, 87, H. R. H. the Duke of Gloucester, Lord Warden of
the New Forest.

Bolton, Lord, 75. (_see Hackwood Park_)

Bolton, H. Esq. 62. (_see Givens Grove_)

Bonham, T. Esq. 30.

Boringdon, Lord, 122. (_see Boringdon Park and Saltram_)

=Boringdon Park=, 122. A deer park belonging to Lord Boringdon. Here are
the remains of a mansion built in the fourteenth century, now occupied
by a farmer. The park contains about 500 acres, including a great
variety of fine scenery.

Borrodaile, ---- Esq. 52.

=Botley Grange=, 212.

=Bounds=, 14, the property of the Earl of Darnley. The demesne surrounds
the park, and consists of about 1000 acres of well-wooded and
picturesque land.

=Bower House=, 199.

=Bow Wood=, 185, the magnificent seat of the Marquis of Lansdown. The
mansion house stands on elevated ground; it consists of three distinct
parts, erected at different periods, consequently exhibiting different
styles of architecture. The first part was built by John, Earl of
Shelburne, grandfather to the present possessor, which, in style of
architecture, resembles an Italian villa. The first marquis extended the
building by adding a wing, 300 feet in extent, in imitation of a wing of
Dioclesian’s palace at Spalatro; this forms the southern side of two
quadrangular courts, which are surrounded by domestic offices. The third
portion, to the north of the house, but connected with it, consists of a
series of private apartments, which are appropriated to visitors. It is
situated in an extensive and beautiful park, greatly diversified by
nature, and enriched by skilful and judicious cultivation. The principal
front faces the south, and commands the most beautiful and richly
variegated prospects. It is ornamented with a large portico, supported
by columns of the Doric order, with corresponding entablatures, whence a
pediment arises, on which the family arms are sculptured in bold relief.
The entrance hall, or vestibule, is paved with tesselated marble.

The apartments are fitted up in the most elegant style, and many are
ornamented with valuable pictures and drawings.

The park and pleasure grounds of Bow-wood are very extensive, environed
by plantations, arranged in the most tasteful and elegant varieties. A
noble lake, which covers the space of about thirty acres, expands its
pellucid waters in the front of the mansion, delightfully heightening
the beauties of the surrounding scenery. This expanse of water is
divided into two branches, one of which, after flowing a considerable
distance under a fine hanging wood, is lost to the view by a circuitous
course round a beautiful mass of plantation: the other recedes behind an
elevated part of the lawn. At the northern extremity of the lake is a
rock, through which the water issues in several broken streams, which,
though artificial, have the wildness and picturesque effect of nature in
the most uncultivated state. These united cascades fall in one sheet
against some projecting stones of irregular shapes. In these rocks are
also contained several subterraneous passages, whose dark openings,
being in perfect unison with the noise of the waters and the seclusion
of the spot, renders this a scene at once sublime, and beautifully
awful. The rocks also contain a vast number of petrifactions. In the
arrangements and distribution of ornaments in these grounds, nature has
been suffered to revel unconfined, guided, but not fettered, by art,
only sufficient to render her works, if possible, still more delightful.
Here is a mausoleum consecrated to the memory of John, Earl of
Shelburne. It is situated on an eminence, enveloped in a deep and silent
grove, judiciously appropriated to the solemnity of the scene, and
contains a monument of marble, with a suitable inscription.

Bradford, T. Esq. 58. (_see Ashdown Park_)

=Bramshill Park=, 74, the seat of Sir J. Cope. The mansion is situated
on a bold eminence, in a spacious Park, and forms one of the most
striking features in the county of Hants. It is reported to have been
built as a palace for Prince Henry, son of James the First, but never
completed according to the original design; the centre part alone being
finished.

Bramstone, ---- Esq. 99. (_see Hall Place_)

Brant, ---- Esq. 23.

=Brianston=, 107, the seat of E. B. Portman, Esq. This elegant building,
which has been recently erected on the site of the old mansion, is
composed of free stone, covering an area of 112 feet by 100, with
offices erected separate, but communicating with the house by an
enclosed passage. The apartments are elegantly spacious, and fitted up
in the most superb and chaste style. The grounds are laid out with great
taste, assisted by nature. A beautiful wood-crowned cliff extends itself
from the mansion to Blandford Bridge, in a semicircular direction, with
the river Stour flowing in a line before it, through verdant meadows,
which, together with the town of Blandford, advantageously seen, forms a
charming view from the front of the mansion.

=Brickland House=, 221.

=Brickworth=, 209.

=Bridge House=, 49.

=Bridge Place=, 8.

Bridges, H. Esq. 219. (_see Buckingham House_)

Bridges, Mrs. 9. (_see Wooton Court_)

=Bridwell=, 195.

=Broadlands Park=, 86, 211, 220, the seat of Lord Viscount Palmerston.
The house is a neat edifice of white brick, standing on the eastern side
of the river Test, which flows through the park: it was nearly rebuilt
by the late Lord Palmerston, a most eminent connoisseur of his time, who
made a fine collection of paintings, which are preserved in this
mansion.

=Brockenhurst House=, 93, the seat of John Moraunt, Esq. (once the
residence of the philanthropic _Howard_), is a handsome modern building,
situated in a spacious park, beautifully diversified with every variety
of woodland scenery.

=Broom Park=, 9, the seat of Sir Henry Oxenden, Bart. The house is a
respectable building, of the time of Charles the First; the present
Baronet has expended considerable sums in extending and improving the
grounds (which are paled in), though nature, especially in front and to
the west, has afforded but barren materials to work upon.

=Brympton House=, 141.

=Buckingham House=, 219.

=Burfoot Lodge=, 63.

Burlton, W. Esq. 138. (_see Donhead Hall_)

Burnett, Sir Robert, 61.

Burrell, Sir C. 65. (_see Nep Castle_)

Burrell, W. Esq. 65. (_see West Grinsted Park_)

=Burton=, 94.

Burton, ---- Esq. 183. (_see Lockeridge House_)

=Burton House=, 94.

=Burton= (formerly _Bodectin_) =Park=, 39. During the lapse of three
centuries was the seat of the very ancient and knightly family of
Goring, the heir of which brought this estate to the Biddulphs’, of
Biddulph, in Staffordshire, in marriage.

Burton Place is a mansion of great extent, having a singularly handsome
front, one hundred and seventy-three feet in length. It is in the best
style of architecture, by Battesla Leoni, who was much employed about
the beginning of the last century. A venerable residence, built in the
reign of Elizabeth, was partly destroyed by fire, and the present
structure was begun by Sir W. Goring, in 1723. J. Biddulph, Esq. who
succeeded to it, brought it to completion, externally, and within these
few years, the apartments have been fitted up with judgment and taste.
The saloon is a remarkably fine room, 46 feet by 30, and the present
proprietor is John Biddulph, Esq. who has resided at Florence for many
years past, but it is inhabited by his brother, Charles Biddulph, Esq.

The site is extremely beautiful, in a large park, picturesquely
diversified, being intersected by a succession of small lakes falling
into each other, which, as a very rare occurrence, are noticed in
Doomsday book for the produce of fish, which is there valued. Carp is
the chief stock, with tench and perch of extraordinary size. In 1789,
out of one pond of 50 acres, were taken 2,824 fish of different kinds.
Fronting the south aspect, the bold headlands, which divide the county,
rise majestically. Duncton Hill and Lavington Down are immediately
opposite, and are broken into knolls richly invested in groves of low
wood. These acclivities are infinitely various and beautiful, and the
whole scene is rendered interesting by the combination of the softest
verdure, with broken cliffs, and an endless terrace of down, in the
distance.

=Busbridge Park=, 27, the seat of Henry Hare Townsend, Esq. The mansion
contains many first rate pictures, by Raphael, Teniers, Vandyck,
Rembrandt, Vandervelt, and others; with a large collection of the best
productions of Morland.

Byron, T. Esq. 53. (_see Hooley House_)


C.

=Camerton=, 188.

=Cams Hall=, 98, 222, the seat of Mrs. Delme, is a handsome modern
building, pleasantly situated on the east side of Portsmouth Harbour,
with a good park.

=Cannon House=, 36, the seat of Lord Selsey. The house is situated at
the northern extremity of the park; the grounds are judiciously planted,
and about 200 yards distant from the mansion, through the park, runs the
little stream, called the Lavant.

=Carclew=, 130, the seat of Sir William Lemon, Bart. is pleasantly
situated on a gentle eminence. The house is a neat modern building, of
the Ionic order, faced with granite, having a regular portico. The
centre and wings are connected by colonnades; it contains some good
pictures, and is fitted up with much taste. Every advantage has been
judiciously taken of the variety of surface, and the grounds are well
laid out.

Carew, Rt. Hon. R. P. 123. (_see Anthony House_)

Carhampton, Earl of, 25. (_see Pains Hill_)

Carlyon, T. Esq. 127. (_see Tregrehan_)

=Castle Goring=, 218.

=Castle House=, 164.

=Castle Malwood Cottage=, 87, the seat of Col. Murray. The situation is
high, and commands extensive views.

=Catchfrench=, 124.

Cator, J. Esq. 16. (_see Beckenham Place_)

=Caversham Park=, 177, the seat of Major Marsack. The mansion is stately
and regular, situated on an eminence, that commands extensive views of
Berks and the adjacent counties. The grounds are tastefully laid out,
and the park includes every variety of appropriate embellishment.

Cazalet, P. Esq. 17. (_see Halstead_)

Chandler, Rev. Dr. 178. (_see Tilehurst Place_)

Channing, Major, 112. (_see Verst_)

=Charlcott House=, 205.

=Charlton House=, 1, the residence of Lady Spencer Wilson, is very
pleasantly situated, and exhibits a good specimen of the style of
building in vogue during the reign of James the First, though some
considerable alterations were made in it by Sir William Ducie, about the
year 1659. It forms an oblong square, with projections at the ends of
each front, crowned by turrets, and an open ballustrade which surrounds
the summit of the whole. The centre also projects, and the entrance is
ornamented by Corinthian columns; the bases displaying sculptures of
lions’ heads. In the window above are the arms and alliance of Sir
William Ducie. The saloon is richly ornamented; the ceiling is still in
the original state, as finished by Sir Adam Newton, and exhibits the
royal arms, and ostrich feathers: the chimney piece is of the same age,
and has on one side the figure of Vulcan, in alabaster, and on the other
that of Venus. In a room adjoining to the saloon is a chimney piece,
with a slab of black marble, so finely polished, that Lord Down is said
to have seen in it a robbery committed on Blackheath, and sent out his
servants, who apprehended the thieves. The gallery on the north side of
the house was also fitted up by Sir A. Newton, and measures seventy-six
feet by sixteen feet. In the windows is some painted glass of the arms
of the Ducies, and their alliances. In this gallery are portraits of
Henry, Prince of Wales, and Thomas Wilson, LL. D. secretary of state to
Queen Elizabeth; and also a large and valuable collection of natural
history, made by Lady Wilson, consisting of insects, minerals,
extraneous fossils, and other subjects: among the fossils are a great
variety of those found in the parish. The park and pleasure grounds
comprise about seventy acres, and include some beautiful scenery. Before
the court-yard is a row of aged cypress trees.

=Charlton Park=, 9, a small seat belonging to Robert Foot, Esq. The
house is surrounded by fine trees, and the grounds are noted for
uncommon verdure, even in time of drought.

=Chart Park=, 63, the seat of Sir C. H. Talbot. The house is a plain
white building, which commands pleasant and extensive views to the
south, and through the adjacent grounds into a beautiful park, which,
though not extensive, is planted with great taste.

Chase, R. Esq. 59. (_see Horstead Place_)

=Chatley House=, 205.

=Chawton Park=, 82, 95.

=Chevening=, 17, the seat of Earl Stanhope. The house is a handsome
modern structure, fronted with stucco. This manor was purchased of the
daughters of Lord Dacre, after having been in the several possessions of
De Chevening, Isley, and Leonard, by the great Earl Stanhope, ancestor
to the present owner. The grounds have been much improved by the late
Earl, who was well known both as a politician and mechanical genius,
particularly celebrated for his improvement of the printing press.

Chichester, Earl of, 60. (_see Stanmer Park_)

Chichester, ---- Esq. 188. (_see Camerton_)

=Chilton Lodge=, 181, the seat of ---- Pearce, Esq. This is an elegant
mansion, boldly and conspicuously situated in a spacious park, adorned
with woods, laid out in the most judicious and tasteful manner. The
house and grounds command many beautiful views.

=Chilworth House=, 211.

=Chipstead Place=, 17, the property and residence of George Polhill,
Esq. whose ancestor, David Polhill, Esq. purchased it in the year 1658.

=Chissel House=, 221.

=Claremont Park=, 25, the seat of H. R. H. the Princess Charlotte of
Wales, and H. S. H. the Prince of Saxe-Cobourg. The mansion was erected
by Lord Clive, the conqueror of India, at an expense of £100,000. It
forms an oblong square of 132 feet by 102. In the principal front a
flight of steps leads to the grand entrance, under a pediment supported
by Corinthian columns. The apartments are spacious and elegant, and the
situation well chosen, commanding various views of the water and
plantations in the park, which are extremely beautiful.

Clark, Capt. 62. (_see Elm Bank_)

Clark, R. H. Esq. 195. (_see Bridwell_)

Clark, R. Esq. 179. (_see Padworth House_)

Clifford, Lord, 118. (_see Ugbrook House_)

Clutton, W. Esq. 48. (_see Hartswood_)

=Cobham Hall=, 4, the seat of Earl Darnley. This mansion, though not
externally grand, retains sufficient remains of its ancient baronial
splendour to excite considerable interest: it is built in the form of a
half H; the extremities of the side wings are terminated by octagonal
towers, and, with the centre, and a sunk wall in the front, encloses a
quadrangular lawn, ornamented by statues, vases, &c. The centre of the
building was planned by Inigo Jones, and was new cased with brick, and
sashed, by the late Earl Darnley; so that its appearance is not uniform
with the wings, which formed part of the residence of the Cobhams.

The furniture and decorations of the apartments in Cobham Hall are of
the most costly and elegant nature, enriched by a variety of beautiful
sculpture, and a fine collection of pictures.

The park, which includes 1800 acres, and is nearly seven miles in
circumference, is beautifully diversified, and abundantly wooded. The
oaks are particularly luxuriant, and many of them are very large and
venerable. On the south side, leading from the house, is a noble avenue
of lime trees, consisting of four rows, and extending to the length of
upwards of 1000 yards. On an elevated site, towards the southern
extremity of the park, is an extensive building, visible from the road,
erected as a =MAUSOLEUM=, or =CHAPEL=, at an expense of £9000, under an
injunction in the will of the late Earl, and designed for the sepulture
of the family. The basement story, which is rusticated, contains a vault
and sarcophagus, surrounded by recesses for interments. The floor over
this was intended for a chapel, and is crowned by a dome, supported by
eight Corinthian columns. The exterior part of this story has four
wings, with duplicated columns, sustaining sarcophaguses, and is
terminated by a pyramid.

=Cogley House=, 173.

=Cold Harbour=, 213.

=Coldrinick=, 124.

=Coley Park=, 178.

=Combe House=, 24.

=Combe Park=, 123.

=Compton House=, 137, the seat of John Hungerford Penruddock, Esq. The
mansion is commodious, and is advantageously situated in a part of the
country extremely luxuriant. It was the residence of the celebrated Col.
Penruddock, who lost his life in an unsuccessful attempt to restore
Charles the Second to the throne.

=Compton Park=, 184, the seat of Mrs. Heneage. This mansion is situated
on lofty ground, and is visible at the distance of thirty miles. It is
composed of stone and bricks, and contains some good rooms, in which are
many valuable pictures. It stands in a pleasant park, ornamented with
water, and fine plantations of wood.

Conolly, ---- Esq. 204. (_see Midford Castle_)

Cook, ---- Esq. 29. (_see Milland House_)

Cook, ---- Esq. 114. (_see Sion House_)

Cope, Sir J. 74. (_see Bramshill Park_)

Copland, A. Esq. 69. The residence of this gentleman is surrounded by
extensive and ornamental gardens and pleasure grounds; in the latter are
a beautiful grotto, and a sheet of water. The house is neat, in the
villa style.

Copley, Sir Jos. 124. (_see Bake_)

=Corsham Park=, 186, the seat of P. Methuen, Esq. The original building
was erected in the year 1582, but it has subsequently been much enlarged
and improved, and is now a most magnificent mansion, in the gothic
style; it is situated in an extensive park, in the ornament and
arrangement of which, nature and art are happily combined. But the
greatest attraction to this charming spot is an extensive and valuable
collection of pictures, by the most celebrated masters.

Corsham House is open for public inspection two days in the week; the
apartments shown are, first, the grand hall, which is fitted up in the
old baronial style; it is 110 feet in length, 25 feet broad, and 25 feet
high: the state dressing room, the state bed chamber, the cabinet room,
the picture gallery, the music room, the saloon, and the dining room.
These apartments are fitted up with great elegance, superbly furnished,
and adorned with the whole of the principal pictures in the Methuen
collection.

=Coryton House=, 113.

Coventry, Earl of, 52.

=Cowdry Park=, 34. In this extensive and beautiful park are situated the
picturesque ruins of Cowdry House, once the magnificent seat of the
noble family of Montague. These ruins are situated in a valley, near the
banks of the Arun, between two hills crowned with woods, the present
state of which bear evident testimony of the former magnificence and
splendour of this justly celebrated mansion. It was richly decorated
with paintings, and contained a choice collection of books, which,
together with the house, and the whole of its valuable furniture, was
destroyed by fire, on the night of the 24th of September, 1793. Its
present possessor, Pointz Cowdry, Esq. has erected a new brick house in
the park, about a mile from the ruins, in which he resides.

Cowdry, Pointz, Esq. 34. (_see Cowdry Park_)

Cox, B. Esq. 160. (_see Old Warren Cottage_)

Cox, R. Esq. 159.

=Cranbury House=, 78, the seat of Lady Holland, is an extensive mansion,
commanding some good views of the surrounding country, in which the
river Itchin, the Southampton water, and the Isle of Wight, are
prominent and interesting features. The home scenery is very fine, and
the grounds are enriched by plantations.

=Cranford Park=, 174, the seat of Lady Berkley. The park is a perfect
flat, but abounding with wood, and well watered by the Crane. The house,
an ancient building, is situated in an angle of the park near the
church: though it commands no variety of prospects, yet, from the
distribution of the woods and other embellishments, it may be deemed a
pleasant retirement. Cranford is celebrated for game, particularly
pheasants.

Crawford, ---- Esq. 51.

=Crockerhill House=, 216.

Crook, ---- Esq. 75, 131. (_see Kempshot Park_)

=Crowhurst Park=, 22, the seat of J. Pelham, Esq. This mansion is
desirably situated in a pleasant park, and commands extensive views of
the British Channel.

=Cuckfield Place=, 50, the seat of the Rev. Mr. Sergison. This mansion
stands in a picturesque situation, surrounded with a park. The approach
is from the high road to Brighton, by a spacious gravel walk, bordered
with noble trees, to the gate-house, which opens into a court leading to
the principal entrance of the mansion.

=Cuffnells=, 92, the pleasant residence of G. Rose, Esq. This
interesting spot, surrounded by the sylvan scenery of the New Forest,
possesses many peculiar advantages: boldly irregular in surface, and
strikingly embellished with stately forest trees, it presents many
beautiful landscapes. The house is situated on a rising ground embosomed
in wood, in the construction of which domestic comfort appears to have
been particularly studied, though exterior elegance has not been
altogether forgotten. The conservatory is filled with choice plants; and
the library is supposed to contain the finest collection of books in the
possession of any private gentleman in the kingdom. Here are also some
good portraits.

Cummings, ---- Esq. 177. (_see Ruscombe House_)

Cunningham, Col. 99. (_see Maltshanger House_)

=Curbridge House=, 213.

Curtis, Sir Roger, 32. (_see Gatcomb_)


D.

=Danson Park=, 2, the seat of John Johnson, Esq. The mansion is a
handsome fabric, standing on a commanding eminence, in a pleasant park.
The original designs were given by Sir Robert Taylor, but were somewhat
departed from in raising the superstructure: on the principal floor are
three large and elegant apartments. The grounds were laid out by the
celebrated Brown, who also formed a spacious sheet of water in the park,
which exhibits some flourishing plantations. The wings of the house were
subsequently pulled down, and a large pile of stabling and offices
erected.

Darnley, Earl of, 4, 14. (_see Bounds, and Cobham Hall_)

Day, S. Esq. 204.

=Deepdeen=, 63, the seat of Thomas Hope, Esq. formerly the residence of
the Hon. Charles Howard, who beautified and adorned the grounds with
great taste.

=Deer Park=, 115.

Delme, Mrs. 98, 222. (_see Cams Hall_)

=Denbighs=, 63.

Dennison, W. J. Esq. 63. (_see Denbighs_)

=Den Place=, 65.

=Dewlish House=, 108.

Dickenson, ---- Esq. 186. (_see Pickwick Lodge_)

Dickins, ---- Esq. 62. (_see Vale Lodge_)

Digby, Earl, 140. (_see Sherborne Castle_)

Dillon, ---- Esq. 96. (_see Hall Place_)

Dinnothorne, ---- Esq. 128. (_see Pennance_)

=Ditton Park=, 175, the seat of Lord Montague. The house is ancient and
venerable, surrounded by a moat of water: it stands pleasantly in a fine
well-wooded park, and appears to have been built in the reign of James
the First. Here is a gallery containing a collection of good pictures.
The apartments are elegant and well furnished.

=Donhead Hall=, 138.

=Donnington Castle=, 180, the ruins of which only now remain, rearing
their ivy-crested tops above the remains of the venerable oaks by which
it was once surrounded. It was originally a place of considerable
strength and importance, and is rendered famous for its bold defence
against the parliament forces in 1644, under the command of the brave
and loyal Col. Boys, in which siege it was greatly delapidated, having
three of its towers entirely destroyed. It is likewise celebrated for
having been the residence of the immortal Chaucer, the parent of English
poetry. Immediately contiguous to the ruins is erected a plain modern
house, now in the occupation of Col. Stead.

=Donnington Grove=, 180, the seat of ---- Bebb, Esq. The house is a
handsome modern building, pleasantly situated on a sloping lawn,
screened from the north by a ridge of woody hills, on which the ruined
towers of Donnington Castle, o’ertopping its surrounding woods, forms a
rich and beautiful back ground. The Lambourne river, which passes
through the park in front of the house, has been judiciously enlarged,
forming a spacious sheet of water about a mile in length, most
tastefully serpentined; and interspersed with islands, which, together
with its banks, are ornamented with groves and clumps of trees,
affording protection to a vast assemblage of the feathered inhabitants
of the lake, which also abounds with fish of various kinds. The grounds
are well furnished with wood, and possess every attraction of luxuriant
nature shining in all the radiance of tasteful cultivation.

Dorchester, Lady, 176.

Dott, ---- Esq. 221. (_see Bittern Grove_)

=Down House=, 101.

=Downland=, 29.

Dumaresq, ---- Esq. 95. (_see Pelham Place_)

Dundas, C. Esq. 181. (_see Barton Court_)

=Dunsboro’ House=, 26.

=Duporth=, 127.

Dyer, Mrs. 216. (_see Crockerhill House_)


E.

=Early Court=, 177.

East, Sir William, 176. (_see Hall Place_)

Edgell, Mrs. 205. (_see Standerwick Court_)

Edwards, Mrs. 205. (_see Charlcott House_)

Egremont, Earl of, 38. (_see Petworth Park_)

Ellis, ---- Esq. 179. (_see Midgham House_)

=Elm Bank=, 62.

=Elvetham=, 74, the seat of Gen. Gwynne. This was formerly a place of
considerable extent and magnificence, and celebrated from a splendid
entertainment given here by the Earl of Hertford to Queen Elizabeth, in
the year 1591. The mansion, which had been considerably reduced, and
greatly delapidated from neglect, has been lately repaired, and rendered
an eligible residence. The park and grounds include an area of about two
miles in circumference.

=Emley Park=, 210.

=Englefield House=, 178, the seat of Richard Benyon, Esq. This
magnificent mansion is situated on the declivity of a verdant hill,
sheltering it from the north, and sloping gently thence to a beautiful
sheet of water, tastefully arranged in a serpentine form, and ornamented
with several woody islands, in which are abundance of wild fowl; the
banks of the lake are also rendered most interestingly picturesque by a
variety of woody scenery. Beyond this, to the south, a beautiful valley,
bounded with swelling hills, delightfully opens to the view, in which
the eye with pleasure wanders over the charming variety of woods,
interspersed with elegant seats, villages, and cultivated grounds.

Enys, ---- Esq. 130.

Errington, ---- Esq. 101. (_see Red Rice_)

=Escott House=, 115, the seat of Sir John Kennaway, Bart. This is a
brick building with stone ornaments, commodious and agreeably situated,
and containing some good paintings. The grounds surrounding the mansion
(about 500 acres) are judiciously laid out, extremely fertile, and
enriched with some very fine timber.

=Esher Place=, 25, the seat of John Spicer, Esq. This is a handsome
modern mansion, situated on an elevated spot, in a spacious park, of
which the house commands many beautiful views, and also of the
surrounding country.

Estcourt, ---- Esq. 199. (_see New Park_)

Etheridge, ---- Esq. 185.


F.

=Fair Place=, 217.

Falmouth, Lord, 179. (_see Woolhampton House_)

=Farnborough Place=, 80.

=Farnham Castle=, 81, the seat of the Bishop of Winchester. The castle
is situated on a hill; its shape is quadrangular, built on the site and
with part of the materials which composed the ancient castle, destroyed
by order of parliament, in the year 1648. It contains a fine library,
and some good paintings. The park is of considerable extent, and
extremely pleasant.

=Felbridge Park=, 56.

Fermanagh, Lady, 2. (_see May Place_)

=Fifehead House=, 139.

Fitzhugh, ---- Esq. 220. (_see Bannisters Lodge_)

Fleming, Col. 212. (_see South Stoneham House_)

Fleming, Mrs. 79, 211. (_see North Stoneham Park_)

=Flower House=, 55.

Flower, Miss, 16.

=Fonthill Abbey=, 163, the seat of William Beckford, Esq. This
magnificent mansion, justly considered unique, whether viewed
collectively or in its subdivisions, must, in either case excite
astonishment and awaken the most delightful sensations. The house,
plantations, extent and variety of this beautiful and diversified spot,
individually claim our attention alike, and each merits a particular
description, which, to enter upon in a work of so limited a nature as
the present, is impossible; we therefore confine ourselves to sketching
a few of the most prominent beauties of this justly celebrated and truly
magnificent seat.

The enclosures measure about seven miles, surrounded by a stone wall,
the internal features of which are diversified with a variety of scenic
capabilities, and such has been the taste and judgment exercised in the
disposition and arrangement of the embellishments, that a journey of
twenty-two miles may be made within these gardens without once retracing
the same steps; in the progress of which the scenery will be found
equally varied, beautiful, and interesting.

An eminence gradually ascending from the open country on the north is
covered with woods, some of which are of ancient growth, but the major
part consists of modern plantations, descending to a fine enclosed
country to the south. From the apex of a hill, embosomed in this
luxuriant grove, rises a mansion called the Abbey, crowned with a lofty
tower (visible at the distance of forty miles) turrets, pediments, and
pinnacles, bearing every external appearance of an ancient monastic
edifice. It is composed of a tower in the centre, 276 feet in height, an
entrance hall lofty and spacious, and three wings, extending from the
tower to the east, north, and south; the exterior elevation of each of
these portions is dissimilar to the others, each appropriated to the
purposes of a commodious and elegant mansion; the whole adorned in the
most costly manner, and enriched with the choicest productions of the
fine arts. The view from the top of the tower is of vast extent,
including many counties in its circumference, and embracing a variety of
charming scenery interspersed with objects beautifully picturesque. Some
conception may be formed of the extent and variety of this scene, when
it is known that the tower has its base upon an eminence considerably
above the level of the top of Salisbury spire; and in the immediate
neighbourhood there is no hill of sufficient magnitude to bound the
view. On the summit of a lofty eminence, called The Beacon, is a plain
of about six acres, intended for the site of a magnificent tower; the
foundations of which are entirely laid, and in most parts the walls are
raised to the height of nine or ten feet, it is of considerable extent,
in form triangular, with a circular bastion at each of its angles.

From the south-east side, near the foot of this hill, a singularly
advantageous prospect of the abbey is obtained. Over a long extent of
ground, adorned in the most luxuriant and beautiful manner by trees of
various foliage, so arranged as not to interrupt the view, this truly
magnificent mansion appears, presenting a grand mass of embattled
towers, surmounted by the lofty octagon which composes the centre. This
charming scene is backed by an elevated woodland of a sombre aspect,
which by contrast heightens the striking and brilliant effect of the
edifice, and thus renders complete this unrivalled coup d’œil.
Descending into the bottom, a fine lake reflects the beauties of the
surrounding scene, which is so arranged as to give an idea of even much
greater magnitude than it possesses; it is plentifully supplied with
waterfowl. Shooting is not allowed within the enclosure, consequently
every animal sports undisturbed, and from their number considerably
enliven this enchanting place.

The former mansion at Fonthill, which is now taken down, was situated
nearly a mile and a half from the present. Fonthill anciently
constituted the lordship of the family of the Giffards, and is still
called Fonthill Giffard, to distinguish it from a contiguous parish,
denominated Fonthill Bishop.

Foote, R. Esq. 9. (_see Charlton Park_)

Foreman, W. Esq. 1. (_see Westcomb Park_)

Fort, ---- Esq. 209. (_see Alderbury House_)

=Fox Lease=, 92.

=Freemantle=, 91, 220.

=Froyle Place=, 82.

Fuller, ---- Esq. 200. (_see Neston_)


G.

Gage, Lord, 59, 96. (_see Plashet Place, and Westbrook House_)

Garnier, ---- Esq. 97, 213. (_see Wickham Corner_)

=Garston Hall=, 55.

=Gatcomb=, 32.

=Gatton Park=, 47, 54, the seat of Sir Mark Wood. This mansion stands in
the middle of an extensive park, ornamented with wood and water
tastefully arranged, and forming a most charming residence.

Gibbons, Sir William, 174. (_see Stanwell Place_)

Gipps, G. Esq, 9. (_see Ileden_)

=Givens Grove=, 62.

Glanville, ---- Esq. 124. (_see Catchfrench_)

Gloucester, H. R. H. the Duke of, 72, 87. (_see Bagshot Park and
Bolderwood Lodge_)

=Gloucester Lodge=, 171.

Gloucester, H. R. H. Princess Sophia of, 92. (_see Ironshill Lodge_)

Goodlad, ---- Esq. 97. (_see Hill Place_)

=Goodwood=, 36, 40, 216, the seat of the Duke of Richmond. The mansion
is advantageously situated in a spacious park, commanding extensive and
delightful prospects. After a variety of alterations and additions to
the present time, this mansion has arrived at a degree of elegance and
splendour truly worthy its present noble possessor. The principal front,
and the west wing, are new. The former, which faces the south, is only
one story high, with a circular tower of two stories, crowned with a low
dome at each end. The centre is embellished with a portico of six Ionic
columns of Portland stone, which support another of the same number of
Doric pillars, surmounted by a ballustrade. Each of the wings, forming
obtuse angles with the front, has also a circular tower at its
extremity. The apartments are spacious and elegant.

The stables and offices, situated westward of the house, are a handsome
quadrangular building, inferior to few in the kingdom. The kennel for
the hounds exceeds in magnificence, and conveniences of every kind, any
structure, perhaps, ever raised before for a similar purpose. The
gardens are extensive, and tastefully laid out. Here is also a
magnificent tennis-court. The park contains 2000 acres, in which, on a
rising ground, is erected a beautiful pleasure-house, called Cairney
Seat: from this building the most magnificent views present themselves.
Adjoining the park, on a hill, is a race course, where races are held
two or three days, in the latter end of April, or beginning of May.

The lion, carved in wood, which ornamented the head of Commodore Anson’s
ship, in which he circumnavigated the globe, is placed on a pedestal,
near the Duke of Richmond Inn.

Goring, C. Esq. 66. (_see Highden_)

Grainger, ---- Esq. 49. (_see Bridge House_)

Grant, ---- Esq. 213. (_see Park Place_)

Grant, J. Esq. 80. (_see Windmill Hill_)

Graves, Lord, 123. (_see Thanks_)

=Greenwich Park=, 1. This spot has been long celebrated as the favourite
residence of several of our sovereigns, having a magnificent palace, on
the site of which is now erected that most splendid monument of national
glory, =Greenwich Hospital=; the prudence and humanity of which
institution confers an immortality of renown on its royal founders,
William the Third and Queen Mary. The architect was Sir Christopher
Wren, who, after having adapted to his plan the wing of a palace,
erected by Charles the Second, in 1696, laid the foundation of the first
new building, and the superstructure was completed in two years
afterwards. From this period the Hospital has been gradually enlarged
and improved, till it has arrived at its present height of splendour and
magnificence. Greenwich Hospital is principally built of Portland stone,
and consists, in its present state, of four distinct quadrangular piles
of building, distinguished by the names of the respective monarchs in
whose reigns they were founded or built. The grand front opens on a
terrace, skirting the southern bank of the Thames, and extending to the
length of 865 feet, in the centre of which is a descent to the river, by
a double flight of steps. The ground plot of the whole edifice forms
nearly a square, of which King Charles’s building occupies the
north-west angle; Queen Ann’s, the north-east; King William’s, the
south-west; and Queen Mary’s, the south-east. The interval between the
two former buildings forms a square, 270 feet wide, in the middle of
which is the statue of George the Second, sculptured by Rysbrach, out of
a single block of white marble, weighing eleven tons, which was taken
from the French by Admiral Sir George Rooke, and given to the Hospital
by Sir John Jennings, governor.

Greenwich Park was disjoined from the palace when the latter was
converted into an hospital, and it still continues to be vested in the
crown. It contains 880 acres, and was walled round with brick by James
the First. The upper part, adjoining to Blackheath, is considerably
elevated; and from One Tree Hill and the Observatory, which stands on
the site of a tower erected by the good Duke of Gloucester, the
prospects are uncommonly fine, particularly of the metropolis, the
county of Essex, and the serpentine windings of the Thames, animated by
the crowds of shipping that are continually navigating its busy stream.
Greenwich Hospital is immediately under the eye; and with the adjacent
country and river, and London in the distance, presents as interesting
a coup-d’œil as can well be imagined. The park itself affords much rich
scenery: it was laid out by Le Nôtre, in the time of Charles the Second,
and is planted chiefly with elms and Spanish chesnuts, some of which
latter are very large. In one part are remains of various ancient
Barrows, most of which were opened, in the year 1784, by Mr. Douglas,
author of the “_Nenia Britannica_.” Among the articles found in them
were spear heads, knives, human bones, and hair, fragments of woollen
cloth, lumps of iron, and broad-headed nails, with decayed wood adhering
to them.

The Ranger’s Lodge, an edifice once splendid, though now greatly
delapidated, was the occasional retirement of the Right Hon. Henry
Pelham, when prime minister: his wife, the Lady Catherine Pelham, being
then Ranger of the park. No other person was appointed to that office
till it was given to the Princess of Wales. The Tower in Greenwich Park,
which had been erected by Duke Humphrey, after having been rebuilt, and
subsequently repaired, was pulled down by Charles the Second, in 1675,
who founded on its site the present =Royal Observatory=. This spot was
chosen by the recommendation of Sir Christopher Wren, and the celebrated
Flamstead was appointed the first Astronomer Royal, by the advice of Sir
Jonas Moore. The king gave £500, and as many bricks as were wanted, from
a spare stock at Tilbury Fort, which together with the materials of the
old Tower, compose the present building, which was completed in 1676 The
present Astronomer Royal is John Pond, Esq. Within the building is a
deep dry well, formed for the purpose of admitting observations to be
made on the stars in the day time.

Greville, ---- Esq. 220. (_see Shirley House_)

=Grove House=, 61.

Grove, Mrs. 164. (_see Zeals House_)

=Grove Place=, 220.

Gwydir, Lord, 16. (_see Langley Park_)

Gwynne, Gen. 74. (_see Elvetham_)


H.

=Hack House=, 199.

=Hackwood Park=, 75, the seat of Lord Bolton. The park is very
extensive, with a surface boldly irregular, partaking of the beautiful
character of the neighbouring chalk downs. The scenery is picturesque,
the views being diversified by large groves of the finest forest trees,
particularly oak, ash, and beech, interspersed with thorns, beautifully
luxuriant and large. The house, which is situated towards the eastern
boundary of the park, is encompassed by about 100 acres of pleasure
grounds, disposed into lawn, terrace, shrubbery, and a noble wood.
Various alterations have been made by Lord Bolton, who has greatly
improved the pleasure grounds, by unfettering nature from the restraints
imposed by the ancient style of gardening. In short, to enumerate the
particular beauties of Hackwood Park, replete with every luxuriant
embellishment that can be obtained from a happy combination of nature
and art, assisted by soil and situation, would far exceed the limits of
this publication. The house was originally a lodge, built in Queen
Elizabeth’s time, and used as a place of meeting for the company
assembled for the purpose of hawking, and as a banqueting room after the
sport was over. This lodge now forms the central part of the building,
which, after a variety of additions and alterations, has arrived at its
present excellence, being rendered, by the improvements of its noble
possessor, a handsome and complete family residence. It contains some
good portraits.

=Haine Castle=, 151.

=Haldon House=, 117, the seat of Sir Lawrence Palk, Bart. This mansion,
which is composed of brick, and stuccoed, was erected about the year
1735: it consists of a centre and two wings, resembling the Queen’s
house in St. James’s Park, but smaller. It stands on an elevated
situation, and from its principal front commands many extensive and
beautiful views. The apartments are handsomely fitted up, and contain
some good pictures. The library also contains a valuable collection of
books, manuscripts, and a cabinet of medals.

The grounds round the house are extensive, and embellished with
plantations. On Pen Hill, a castellated building is erected to the
memory of Gen. Lawrence, whose statue ornaments the entrance. The views
from this castle, which is three stories high, are extremely beautiful,
varied, and extensive.

Hale, ---- Esq. 119. (_see Ingsdon_)

=Hales Place=, 11, the seat of Sir Edward Hales, Bart. The house stands
on a commanding eminence, and consists of a spacious body, and two wings
for offices, built of brick, in the Ionic order, with stone jams and
cornices. Many improvements have been made here by the present baronet,
among which, beautifying the park and grounds forms a conspicuous part,
they being of considerable extent, and including much fine scenery.

Hales, Sir Edward, 11. (_see Hales Place_)

=Haling Park=, 53, the seat of W. P. Hammond, Esq. Charles Howard, the
celebrated Lord High Admiral of Elizabeth, held it by lease of the
crown, and died here in 1624. The fine grove in the park contains a
great number of choice exotics and ever-greens.

=Hall Place=, 96, the seat of ---- Dillon, Esq. The house is a neat
building, pleasantly situated in a small, but elegantly diversified,
park, surrounded with woody hills, interspersed with cultivated grounds.

=Hall Place=, 176.

=Hall Place=, 99.

Hallet, J. Esq. 8. (_see Higham_)

=Halnaker House=, 40, 216, a seat of the Duke of Richmond. The house has
been suffered to go to decay; but it is remarkable, as containing two
curfews, as old as the reign of William the Conqueror.

=Halstead=, 17.

Hammond, W. P. Esq. 53. (_see Haling Park_)

=Hampton Court Park=, 24. In this park stands a royal Palace, originally
built with brick, by Cardinal Wolsey, who set up 280 silk beds for
strangers only, and richly furnished it with gold and silver plate; but
it raised so much envy against him, that, to screen himself from its
effects, he gave it to Henry VIII. who, in return, suffered him to live
in his palace at Richmond. Henry enlarged it, and it then consisted of
five spacious courts, adorned with buildings, which, in that age, were
greatly admired.

Of the splendour of this palace we have few remains. The ancient
apartments still standing, having been originally used merely as
domestic offices, can convey no idea of the times in which they were
built. The principal part of the old palace was taken down in 1690, and
the present structure was raised by King William, under the direction of
Sir Christopher Wren. The grand façade towards the garden extends 330
feet, and that towards the Thames 328. The portico and colonnade of
duplicated pillars, of the Ionic order, at the grand entrance; and
indeed the general design of these elevations, are in a superior style
of magnificence.

The park and gardens, with the ground on which the palace stands, are
three miles in circumference. On a pediment, in the front of the palace
facing the gardens, is a bas-relief of the triumphs of Hercules over
Envy; and facing it is a large oval basin, answering to the form of this
part of the garden, which is a large oval, divided into gravel walks and
parterres. On the south side of the palace is the privy garden, which
was sunk ten feet, to open a view from the apartments to the Thames, and
in which is a fountain, with two grand terrace walks. The entrance to
the place is from the town, through four large brick piers, ornamented
with the lion and unicorn. Passing through a long court, on each side of
which is stabling, we arrive at the first portal, decorated with the
heads of the four Cæsars, namely, Tiberius, Vitellius, Trajan, and
Adrian. Through this portal we pass into a quadrangle, which leads to a
second quadrangle, where, over the portal, is a beautiful clock, by
Tompion, on which are the twelve signs of the Zodiac, with the rising
and setting of the sun, the phases of the moon, &c. In this quadrangle
is a stone colonnade, of the Ionic order, which leads to the great
stair-case, adorned with gilt iron balustrades, erected on porphry. This
stair-case, with the ceiling, was painted by Verrio. The paintings in
the various apartments of this palace are numerous; a guide attends to
describe them.

The palace consists of three quadrangles: the first and second are
ancient; but the third, comprising the royal apartments, was
magnificently built of brick and stone by William the Third. The gardens
are in the style which prevailed some years ago, when mathematical
figures were preferred to the forms of natural beauty.

At the extremity of the gardens, opposite Thames Ditton, is a lodge, in
the possession of the Duke of Kent, as ranger of Hampton Court Park. It
is called the Pavillion, and is a neat little structure.

=Harden Huish=, 185.

Harding, Rev. Mr. 17.

Harman, ---- Esq. 3. (_see Wombwell Hall_)

Harris, ---- Esq. 151. (_see Haine Castle_)

=Hartham Park=, 186, the seat of ---- Joy, Esq. The house is remarkable,
as having been built by Lady James, the friend and correspondent of
Sterne, who also greatly embellished the park and pleasure grounds.

=Hartswood=, 48.

=Hatchford=, 25.

Hatsell, J. Esq. 55. (_see Marden Park_)

Havelock, ---- Esq. 3. (_see Ingress_)

Hawkins, Sir Christopher, 128. (_see Trewithan_)

Hawley, Mrs. 74.

=Haydon Seat=, 189.

=Hazel Park=, 177.

Heathcote, T. F. Esq. 210. (_see Emley Park_)

Heathcote, ---- Esq. 199. (_see South Broom House_)

Heathcote, Sir W. 85. (_see Hursley Lodge_)

=Heatherton Park=, 194.

Heneage, Mrs. 184. (_see Compton Park_)

Henley, ---- Esq. 23.

=Hermitage, the=, 4.

Hext, ---- Esq. 126. (_see Restormel Castle_)

=Heytesbury Park=, 206, the seat of Sir William A’Court, Bart. The
mansion is a modern brick building, surrounded with extensive pleasure
grounds.

=Higham=, 8, a small seat in the villa style, the property of J. Hallet,
Esq. The house occupies a very pleasant and commanding situation.

=Highden=, 66.

=Hill Place=, 97.

Hillier, Mrs. 26. (_see Stoke Place_)

=Hills Place=, 65.

Hitchings, James, Esq. 55. (_see Garston Hall_)

Hoare, G. Esq. 78. (_see Twyford Park_)

Hoare, Henry, Esq. 46. (_see Mitcham Grove_)

Hoare, Sir R. C. 172, 173. (_see Stour Head House, and the Abbey_)

Holland, Lady, 78. (_see Cranbury Park_)

Holland, Lord, 69. (_see Holland House_)

=Holland House=, 69, the seat of Lord Holland, erected in the reign of
Queen Elizabeth, is a venerable and stately gothic structure, standing
at the summit of a spacious lawn, which gently rises from the road,
commanding views over the Surrey hills. The grounds are pleasantly
arranged, and well wooded.

=Holme Park=, 177, the seat of Charles Fysh Palmer, Esq. This is an
elegant mansion. The river Thames glides beneath the elevated spot on
which the house is situated, and flowing through a beautiful valley, is
seen winding between the distant hills, and giving additional lustre to
the surrounding country, which is extremely pleasing, and, in many
places, picturesque.

=Holwood=, 16, the seat of ---- Pocock, Esq. was purchased of the
Barrow’s family by the Right Hon. William Pitt, the celebrated Prime
Minister. This was his favourite retirement: the grounds and scenery are
extremely beautiful.

=Hooley House=, 53.

Hope, T. Esq. 63. (_see Deepdeen_)

=Horstead Place=, 59.

Howard, R. Esq. 62. (_see Ashtead Park_)

Hudson, R. Esq. 47. (_see Tadworth Court_)

Hulton, H. Esq. 221. (_see Bevis Mount_)

Humphreys, ---- Esq. 185. (_see Ivy House_)

=Hungerford Park=, 181, formerly the residence of the Barons of
Hungerford, but now the seat of ---- Willes, Esq. It is a neat mansion,
in the Italian style, built on the site of the old house. The lands
surrounding the house are mostly cultivated, part of which are laid out
in pleasure grounds. The south and west are closed with woods; but to
the north the country is open, and the eye ranges over a considerable
extent of beautiful scenery.

=Hursley Lodge=, 85, the seat of Sir William Heathcote, Bart. M. P. This
is a substantial spacious edifice, pleasantly situated in a park well
stocked with deer, and embracing extensive woods and shrubberies. It was
the residence of Richard Cromwell; and, in pulling down the old manor
house, on the site of which the present building is erected, the seal of
the commonwealth of England was found.

=Hurstbourn Park=, 100, the beautiful seat of the Earl of Portsmouth.
The mansion is situated on elevated ground, commanding various and
extensive prospects: it consists of a centre, and two uniform wings,
connected by colonnades with the body; the chief apartments are
decorated with numerous paintings, by the best masters. The park is well
wooded, and abounds with fine deer.

=Hyde Park=, 69. This park, from its contiguity to the metropolis, is
much resorted to by all ranks of the inhabitants, for air and exercise;
it possesses some pleasing scenery, and is occasionally used for
exercising and reviewing the troops.


I.

=Jackson=, J. Esq. 79, 91, 221. (_see Belle Vue_)

Jarrett, ---- Esq. 91, 220. (_see Freemantle_)

Jenner, Robert, Esq. 56. (_see Felbridge Park_)

Jenning, G. Esq. 88. (_see Barnfield_)

Jersey, Earl of, 70. (_see Osterley Park_)

Ilchester, Earl of, 173. (_see Redlynch House_)

=Ileden=, 9.

=Ingress=, 3, the seat of W. Havelock, Esq. (formerly called
_Ince-grece_), occupies an elevated situation, rising from the Thames,
and commanding a beautiful view of the river, and of the opposite parts
of Essex. This estate has been in the possession of several noblemen and
gentlemen, who have all contributed to its splendour, either by
additions, or improvements, down to its present possessor. The grounds
are extremely beautiful, both in respect to home scenery, and to the
more distant prospects which they command: the views from the house are
particularly fine. In an elegant summer-house, built in a hollow of the
chalk cliffs, are arranged a valuable collection of Roman altars,
brought from Italy, together with statues, and other specimens of Roman
sculpture, which are placed in different parts of the garden.

=Ingsdon=, 119.

Johnson, ---- Esq. 2. (_see Danson Park_)

Jolliffe, H. Esq. 54. (_see Merstham House_)

Jones, Gen. 96. (_see Belmont_)

Jones, Lady, 99. (_see Worting House_)

Jopp, ---- Esq. 94. (_see Winkton House_)

=Jordans House=, 168.

Joy, ---- Esq. 186. (_see Hartham Park_)

=Ironshill Lodge=, 92.

=Juniper Hill=, 63, the seat of Sir Lucas Pepys, Bart. This is a
handsome house, with curious plantations.

=Ivy Church House=, 209.

=Ivy House=, 185.


K.

Keith, Lord, 32, 214. (_see Purbrook Park_)

=Kempshot Park=, 75, 131, the seat of J. C. Crook, Esq. The house is a
handsome brick building, standing in a spacious park, and the ancient
seat of the Pink family.

Kennaway, Sir John, 115. (_see Escott House_)

=Kenners House=, 152.

=Kensington Gardens=, 69. These gardens are spacious, and contain some
pleasing scenery: they are open for the recreation of the public, under
some restrictions. Here is also a palace, which has occasionally been a
royal residence. The state apartments are noble, and the different
chambers, stair-cases, and balconies, are ornamented with one of the
most curious collections of paintings in England.

=Kiddbrook=, 57, the seat of the Right Hon. Charles Abbott, Speaker of
the House of Commons. The house is large, but stands rather low. The
park is not very extensive, but is tastefully laid out, and ornamented
with water.

=Killerton Park=, 196, 197.

King, Lord, 26. (_see Ockham Park_)

=Kingston House=, 109, the seat of W. M. Pitt, Esq. erected in the year
1720. The form of the building is a long square, 101 feet by 62; it is
situated on a rising ground, open to the north on a fine down,
exhibiting views agreeably romantic, enriched by plantations. The
grounds are laid out with great taste, assisted by a fine reservoir of
water, interspersed with islands, covered with trees and shrubs.

Kingston, Lady, 79, 221. (_see Portswood_)

=Kippington=, 18, the seat of Francis Motley Austen, Esq. once the
residence of the celebrated Thomas Farnaby, A. M. one of the most
eminent schoolmasters that ever lived.

=Knowle Park=, 18, the seat of Lord Whitworth. The magnificent and
immense pile which graces the demesne of Knowl, exhibits specimens of
the styles of different ages, though by far the greater part is of the
times of the Archbishops Bourchier and Morton. The most ancient is
probably coeval with the Mareschels and Bigods, who formerly possessed
this domain; the most modern is of the erection of Thomas, first Earl of
Dorset, in the beginning of the reign of James the First. Many
subsequent improvements have been made, the most considerable of which
was by Richard, the fifth earl. The building is of a quadrangular shape,
chiefly in the castellated style, with square towers, and two large
embattled gateways. This edifice covers a space upwards of five acres in
extent: the magnitude and feudal style of the building conveys most
forcibly to the mind, the idea of days long since past, when baronial
pomp, and romantic chivalry, shone in their meridian splendour; nor is
the charm broken on entering the hall, still ornamented with all the
paraphernalia of its original decorations. The apartments are splendidly
fitted up, but their most attractive ornaments are the invaluable
collection of pictures they contain. Among the portraits, which are
numerous and well preserved, are many of the principal nobility and
statesmen who lived in the reigns of Henry the Eighth and his children:
some of them are by Holbein. The collection also contains some of the
finest productions of Titian, Corregio, Vandyck, Rembrandt, and Sir
Joshua Reynolds. Here is also a fine collection of antique _Busts_,
mostly purchased in Italy by the late Duke of Dorset.

The Park is between five and six miles in circumference, it presents a
richly diversified surface, abounds with fine timber and woods, and
produces venison of a remarkable fine flavour.

Knowlys, ---- Esq. 49.


L.

=Lackham=, 185.

Lamb, ---- Esq. 49. (_see Tilgate House_)

Lance, ---- Esq. 221. (_see Chissel House_)

=Langley House=, 175.

=Langley Park=, 16.

Langton, W. Gore, Esq. 202. (_see Newton Park_)

Lansdown, Marquis of, 185. (_see Bow Wood_)

=Laverstock House=, 100.

=Lea House=, 28, 33.

Leach, J. Esq. 28, 33. (_see Lea House_)

Lear, William, Esq. 217. (_see Badworth Park_)

Leaves, ---- Esq. 217. (_see Tortington House_)

=Lee Place=, 1.

Leibenrood, J. Esq. 178. (_see Prospect Hill_)

Lemon, Sir W. 130. (_see Carclew_)

Leverton, T. Esq. 53, 55. (_see Purley House_)

Lindsay, Capt. 16. (_see Plaistow Lodge_)

=Little Park=, 222.

Liverpool, Earl of, 24. (_see Combe House_)

Lloyd, T. M. Esq 218.

Lock, ---- Esq. 62. (_see Norbury Park_)

=Lockeridge House=, 183.

Lockhart, ---- Esq. 210. (_see Sherfield House_)

Long, Right Hon. Charles. 16. (_see Warren House_)

=Longford Castle=, 209, the seat of the Earl of Radnor. This ancient
Castle, which appears to have been built about the year 1591, and
subsequently improved and altered, is situated on the western bank of
the River Avon, in an extensive and beautiful park. It is of a
triangular shape, with a round tower at each extremity. The building is
composed of stone and flint, and was formerly surrounded by a moat, and
approached by draw-bridges. The present noble proprietor is now erecting
a very large castellated mansion, and the old building is destined to be
taken down. Longford Castle has long been distinguished for its valuable
collection of pictures, many of which are highly interesting.

=Losely=, 27, the seat of J. Molyneux, Esq. The house is large, and
stands in the middle of a beautiful park: it is composed of stone, and
was built about the year 1568. The main body of the mansion faces the
north, and has an extensive wing on the west, and on the east is the
garden wall, of equal dimensions with the wing, with projections, &c. to
correspond. In the centre is a hall, 42 feet long, and 25 broad. The
wing contains, on the first floor, a gallery 121 feet long, and 18 wide,
which, together with the apartments, contain many good paintings.

Lowther, ---- Esq. 84. (_see Ovington Place_)


M.

Maidman, ---- Esq. 97.

Majesty, His, 175. (_see Windsor Castle_)

Mallet, Sir G. 160. (_see Wilbury Park_)

=Maltshanger House=, 99.

=Manor House=, 159.

=Manydown=, 99.

=Marden Park=, 55.

=Maresfield Park=, 58.

Margason, ---- Esq. 67, 218. (_see Offington House_)

Markwick, W. Esq. 65. (_see Den Place_)

Marlboro’, Duke of, 70, 177. (_see Sion Hill and White Knights_)

=Marley House=, 120.

Marsack, Major, 177. (_see Caversham Park_)

=May Place=, 2, the seat of Lady Fermanagh, is a large mansion of the
time of James the First, but has been deprived of its original character
by modern alterations and additions, made at a considerable expense.

Meade, T. Esq. 205. (_see Chatley House_)

=Merley House=, 90.

=Merry Oak Farm=, 221.

Merrywether, ---- Esq. 184. (_see Blacklands_)

=Merstham House=, 54.

Methuen, P. Esq. 186. (_see Corsham Park_)

Middleton, ---- Esq. 82, 95. (_see Chawton Park_)

Middleton, Lord Viscount, 27. (_see Pepper Harrow Park_)

=Midford Castle=, 204.

=Midgham House=, 179.

=Midlington Place=, 97.

Mildmay, Sir H. C. St. John, 78. (_see Shawford House_)

=Milland House=, 29.

Miller, Sir T. 82. (_see Froyle Place_)

Mills, ---- Esq. 94. (_see Bistern House_)

=Milshall Park=, 210, the seat of Major Osborne. Here, in 1800, a
beautiful Hindoo temple was erected as a tribute to the merits of Warren
Hastings, Esq. late Governor General of Bengal. This building is erected
of artificial stone, after the chastest models of Hindoo architecture,
and profusely ornamented with appropriate embellishments.

=Mitcham Grove=, 46, the seat of Henry Hoare, Esq. is a pleasant villa,
on the bank of the river Wandle: it was purchased by Lord Clive, and
presented to Alexander Wedderburn, Esq. afterwards Lord Loughborough, in
return for his defence of that nobleman in the House of Commons, from
whom it was purchased by its present owner.

Mitchell, Gen. 108. (_see Dewlish House_)

Molyneux, ---- Esq. 27. (_see Losely_)

Monck, B. Esq. 178. (_see Coley Park_)

=Monkton=, 185.

Montagu, Admiral, 217. (_see Avisford House_)

Montagu, Lord, 175. (_see Ditton Park_)

=Montreal=, 17, the seat of Lord Amherst, so called by the late Jeffery,
Lord Amherst, K. B. in memory of his success in the reduction of
Montreal, in Canada, in the year 1760. This nobleman erected the present
elegant mansion, near the site of the ancient residence, which was
called Brooks’ Place. A triumphal column, or obelisk, is erected in the
grounds belonging to this seat, recording the achievements of the
British troops in North America, during General Amherst’s continuance
there.

Moor, ---- Esq. 116. (_see Blue Hayes_)

=Moor Park=, 81, the seat of ---- Tinison, Esq. once the residence of
Sir William Temple, who, in this retirement breathed his last; and such
was his attachment to the spot, that, by his own directions, his heart
was buried under a sun-dial in the garden, enclosed in a silver box. The
house, a large white edifice, stands on the west side of the park,
which, though not very large, is, in many parts, beautifully romantic.

Moraunt, ---- Esq. 93. (_see Brockenhurst House_)

=Morden Park=, 61, the seat of G. Ridge, Esq. This mansion is a handsome
quadrangular building, situated on a rising ground, with extensive
pleasure grounds, laid out with considerable taste, and ornamented with
two fine sheets of water.

Morgan, ---- Esq. 212. (_see Botley Grange_)

=Mount Edgecumbe=, 122, the seat of the Earl of Mount Edgecumbe. This
truly magnificent mansion is situated on the side of a beautifully
wooded hill, in a spacious lawn, bounded with rich old timber, growing
down to the water’s edge. From its northern and eastern fronts, it
commands extensive, and finely diversified prospects, including
Plymouth, the Dock, and the Dock-yard, the citadel, the shipping in the
Hamoaze, and the surrounding country, bounded by elevated hills. It was
completed in the reign of Queen Mary, and is built of red lime stone,
covered with stucco; the door and window cases are of moor stone. Its
form is nearly square, with an octagonal tower at each corner, and
battlements at the top. The hall occupies the centre of the house, and
rises to the second story: this room is fitted up in the Grecian style
of architecture, and is handsomely decorated with Doric columns, and
pilasters of blue marble, surrounded by an Ionic entablature. The rest
of the apartments are equally splendid, containing a number of
portraits, and a well-furnished library.

The grounds occupy an area of about three miles in circumference, which
includes the whole of the peninsula, formed by the Tamar on one side,
and the open sea on the other, and connected by a very narrow isthmus to
the main land.

The deer park is on the summit of the hill, and, besides the views
described, the house commands extensive prospects southward, over
Cawsand Bay and the Channel. The Eddistone Light House is also visible
in the horizon. At the principal western entrance of the park stands the
parish church of Maker, the views from the tower of which are nearly
unparalelled for their variety and picturesque grandeur. The southern
side of the hill is an abrupt rocky cliff, covered with every sort of
ever-green tree and shrub, among which myrtles thrive with great
luxuriance, and grow to an extraordinary size. A terrace, midway up the
hill, runs through the midst of these plantations; and a walk, in a
zigzag direction down the rocks, conducts to numerous points of view,
exhibiting an extraordinary variety of romantic scenery, which is
equally beautiful in all seasons of the year. The flower garden is at
the bottom of the lawn, in front of the house, close to the water’s
edge, which, being the narrowest part of the channel that forms the
entrance to the harbour, ships of war of the first rate pass close to
it. In this garden stands a block house, built for the defence of the
port at the time of the expected invasion by the Spanish Armada, in the
reign of Queen Elizabeth; and below it is a saluting battery of
twenty-one guns. This garden is divided into French and English flower
gardens, with a green-house, magnificent orangery, &c. The whole of
these extensive, and eminently beautiful grounds, have been laid out
under the directions of the several proprietors, without the assistance
of a landscape gardener.

Mount Edgecumbe, Earl of, 122. (_see Mount Edgecumbe_)

=Mount Nod Farm=, 52.

=Mount Pleasant=, 13.

=Muntham=, 67, the seat of ---- Walker, Esq. A capacious mansion,
surrounded by a pleasant park, once the residence of William Frankland,
Esq. celebrated for his skill in mechanics and natural philosophy.

Murray, Col. 87. (_see Castle Malwood Cottage_)

Murrell, ---- Esq. 61.


N.

Neale, ---- Esq. 200. (_see Shaw House_)

Nelson, Earl, 209. (_see Standlinch House_)

=Nep Castle=, 65, the seat of Sir C. Burrell. This estate derives its
name from the ruins of a castle, some small remains of which are still
to be seen near the road.

=Neston=, 200.

Neville, Hon. G. 55. (_see Flower House_)

Newburgh, Earl of, 42, 216. (_see Slindon House_)

=New Hall=, 209.

Newland, ---- Esq. 95. (_see Rotherfield Park_)

Newnham, R. Esq. 58. (_see Maresfield Park_)

=New Park=, 199, the seat of Thomas Estcourt, Esq. The house is a modern
building, situated on rising ground, thence commanding a beautiful and
extensive view. In front of the house is a deer park, enriched by woods
most naturally and beautifully disposed, on a surface offering every
variety of shape and appearance, consequently presenting the most
unbounded versatility of natural landscape.

=New Park=, 93.

=New Place=, 84.

=New Place=, 217.

=Newton Park=, 202.

=Norbury Farm=, 53.

=Norbury Park=, 62, the seat of ---- Lock, Esq. This seat, one of the
most beautiful in the county, stands on a hill commanding extensive and
delightful prospects. The sides of the principal rooms are painted with
views of the romantic mountains and lakes in Cumberland and
Westmoreland, which are so managed as to have the appearance of being a
continuation of the surrounding scenery. The park is extensive, and
agreeably diversified, embellished with plantations, &c. This park is
remarkably famous for containing a great number of very fine walnut
trees.

Norfolk, Duke of, 44, 65, 217. (_see Arundel Park and Hills Place_)

=Nork House=, 47.

Norman, ---- Esq. 16.

Norris, ---- Esq. 95. (_see Basing Park_)

=North Stoneham Park=, 79, 212, the seat of Mrs. Fleming. The mansion is
an old building, seated rather low, but has been much improved and
enlarged. The park is extensive, and well wooded; it abounds with deer;
and at the upper end has a pleasant summer-house, from which the
prospects are very fine.

Northumberland, Duke of, 70, 152. (_see Sion House and Worrington
House_)

=Norton Hall=, 188.


O.

O’Brien, ---- Esq. 109. (_see Stinsford House_)

=Ockham Park=, 26.

=Offington House=, 67, 218, the seat of William Margason, Esq. is a low
building of stone, plain in the front, with small wings. The grounds
surrounding it are enclosed with a stone wall, and contain some good
timber.

Ogle, Sir C. 77.

=Old Place=, 217.

=Old Warren Cottage=, 160.

Onslow, Mr. Serjeant, 26. (_see Send Grove_)

Onslow, Rev. C. W. 26. (_see Dunsboro’ House_)

Orkney, Lady, 176. The seat of this lady is an ancient building, which,
from its situation on an eminence, commands a fine prospect of the
Thames, and the adjacent country. The park, stored with rich woods, is
rendered beautifully picturesque by its inequality of surface.

Orr, Capt. 209. (_see Brickworth_)

Osborne, Major, 210. (_see Milshall Park_)

=Osterley Park=, 70, the seat of the Earl of Jersey. The house is a
magnificent structure, of a square form, having a tower at each outward
angle. The ascent to the east front is by a grand flight of steps, to an
open saloon, or portico, which leads to the principal door of the hall.
The apartments are spacious, fitted up in the most sumptuous and costly
manner, and contain a good collection of pictures. The park is about six
miles in circumference; it abounds with wood, and its grounds are
beautifully disposed, the effect being considerably heightened by a
charming lake, which is inhabited by a great variety of water fowl. On
the margin of this lake stands an elegant menagerie, containing a large
collection of exotic and curious birds; and the scenery on its banks,
from the variety and arrangement, give it an appearance beautifully
picturesque.

=Ovington Place=, 84.

Oxenden, Sir H. 9. (_see Broom Park_)


P.

=Padworth House=, 179, the seat of R. Clark, Esq. This is a noble
mansion, and from its situation, standing on elevated ground, commands
many extensive and beautiful prospects. The house is well sheltered by
wood, and the grounds have an easy slope to the meadows in the valley,
through which the limpid Kennet winds its course, adding considerable
beauty to the landscape, as seen in various points of view.

=Pains Hill=, 25, the seat of the Earl of Carhampton. These beautiful
grounds were formed by the Hon. Charles Hamilton; a considerable part of
which was taken from the barren heath. The south side is a bank above
the river Mole, which runs at the foot of it. Availing himself of the
inequalities of the land, his plantations were made, and buildings
placed with the utmost judgment; a spacious piece of water was also
formed, which, though considerably above the level of the river, is
supplied from it by an ingenious, though simple contrivance. The present
edifice is a handsome white building; the front, which is facing the
river, is adorned in the centre with a pediment, supported by four
columns, and bowed sides. The beauty and unexpected variety of the
scene; the happy situation, elegant structure, and judicious form of the
buildings; the flourishing state, uncommon diversity, and contrasted
grouping of the trees, and the contrivance of the water, will not fail
to excite the most agreeable sensations.

Palk, Sir Lawrence, 117. (_see Haldon House_)

Palk, W. Esq. 120. (_see Marley House_)

Palmer, ---- Esq. 177. (_see Holme Park_)

Palmerston, Lord, 86, 211, 220. (_see Broadlands Park_)

=Park House=, 160.

=Park Place=, 213.

Parker, ---- Esq. 117. (_see Whiteway_)

Parnell, ---- Esq. 188. (_see Woodbarrow House_)

=Paultons Park=, 86, the seat of Hans Sloane, Esq. The house stands in a
rather secluded situation; but the park, embracing a circumference of
about five miles, is beautifully wooded, and interspersed with spacious
lawns.

=Pavilion, the=, 51, 60, 219, H. R. H. the Prince Regent. This mansion
is fitted up with all the assistance of taste and art. It is situated
near the north-west of the Steyne, =Brighton=, and was erected in 1784,
having a handsome sea front, extending 200 feet, in the centre of which
is a circular building, having a lofty dome raised on pillars, two wings
were lately added to the fabric, which now renders its proportions
complete. The interior is fitted up with the utmost magnificence, and
the furniture is mostly Chinese. Towards the street the front forms a
square, with a colonade in the centre, supported by columns, looking
over a green, formerly the road. On the north side of what was formerly
called the Promenade Grove, a magnificent building has been lately
erected, in the centre of which is a lofty dome, fitted up as stabling
for the Prince Regent’s stud. On the eastern side is a racket-court, on
the west a riding house, and on the north coach houses and stabling for
the coach and saddle horses, elegantly finished in the Chinese style.

Pearce, ---- Esq. 181. (_see Chilton Lodge_)

Pelham, J. Esq. 22. (_see Crowhurst Park_)

=Pelham Place=, 95.

Pembroke, Earl of, 136, 208. (_see Wilton House_)

Pender, Admiral, 185. (_see Harden Huish_)

Penn, J. Esq. 175. (_see Stoke Park_)

=Pennance=, 128.

Penruddock, J. H. Esq. 137. (_see Compton House_)

=Pepper Harrow House=, 27, the seat of Lord Viscount Middleton, stands
in a beautiful park, through which runs the river Wey. The grounds,
which are finely wooded, have been considerably enlarged and improved by
its present noble possessor, who finished the mansion began by the late
Lord, who died in 1765. It stands on a bank sloping to the river,
sheltered on the north and east by elevated grounds, crowned with
luxuriant plantations. The apartments are elegantly fitted up, and
enriched with a valuable collection of pictures. The library contains a
choice assemblage of the best authors. The conservatory is to the west
of the house, fronting the south, near the bank which overlooks the
river. The offices are most judiciously concealed by plantations.

Pepys, Sir Lucas, 63. (_see Juniper Hill_)

Peters, H. Esq. 63. (_see Beechworth Castle_)

=Petworth Park=, 38, the magnificent seat of the Earl of Egremont. The
mansion stands close to the town of Petworth, the back front opening
into the church-yard. It was erected on the site of the ancient house by
the Duke of Somerset. The front of free stone, adorned with statues on
the top, is singularly handsome, forming an uniform range, having
twenty-one windows in each story. The interior arrangements are
remarkable for magnificence and elegance, all the principal apartments
being decorated with paintings, antique statues, and busts, many of
which are of first-rate excellence.

The park is very extensive, the wall being upwards of twelve miles in
circumference. In the front of the mansion is a sheet of water, formed
with the springs collected from the neighbouring hills, from which, by a
simple and ingenious contrivance, every part of the building is
abundantly supplied, as well as the whole town of Petworth, with
excellent water; this improvement was effected at an expense of £30,000.
In case of fire, from the arrangement made in the mansion, an immediate
and plentiful supply of water can be obtained, which, without the
assistance of engines, may be thrown in profusion on any part of the
building; and the Earl’s domestics occasionally practice throwing the
water, in order to be expert in case of necessity. This park commands
views picturesquely varied, extensive, and delightful, both in home
scenery, and on the beautiful Downs of Sussex and Surrey; and it is also
well stocked with game.

This noble seat is a beautiful specimen of those which combine the
elegant with the useful; great improvements having been made therein,
particularly that of enclosing the present deer park, which previously
was an entire forest scene, overspread with bushes, furze, some timber,
&c. Every part of the park has been drained in the most effectual
manner, and the whole of it inclosed and divided into proper fields. It
is thoroughly well stocked with Sussex, Devon, and Herefordshire cattle,
and flocks of the South Down, Spanish, Leicester, and Romney breeds.
Besides which, his lordship has imported the Calmuck and Astrakan breed,
whose chief peculiarity is, that, instead of a tail, they have a large
projection of fat, like marrow, of exquisite delicacy. His lordship has
also the shawl goat of Thibet, from the fleece of which those beautiful
manufactures of the east are fabricated.

Pickering, ---- Esq. 92. (_see Fox Lease_)

=Pickwick Lodge=, 186.

Pitt, W. M. Esq. 109. (_see Kingston House_)

=Place House=, 150.

=Plaistow Lodge=, 16.

=Plashet Place=, 59.

Pleydell, E. M. Esq. 108. (_see Whatcomb House_)

Pocock, ---- Esq. 16. (_see Holwood_)

Pocock, Lady, 176.

Pole, Sir W. 114. (_see Shute Park_)

Polhill, G. Esq. 17. (_see Chipstead Place_)

=Poltimore House=, 197.

Portall, W. Esq. 100. (_see Laverstock House_)

Porter, ---- Esq. 116. (_see Rockbere House_)

Portman, E. B. Esq. 107. (_see Brianston_)

Portsmouth, Earl of, 100. (_see Hurstbourn Park_)

=Portswood=, 79, 221, the seat of Lady Kingston. The house is a handsome
building, which, from its situation on an eminence, commands fine views
of the surrounding scenery, beautifully diversified with wooded meadows
rising in the agreeable variety of hill and dale, among which the river
Itchen, and the Southampton water, forming a spacious lake in the front
of the mansion, are the most striking features. The pleasure grounds are
laid out with great taste, and the shrubberies are extensive.

The house, externally, has an elegant appearance; and the interior is
commodious, ornamented in a style of chaste simplicity, enriched with
some fine paintings.

Powlett, G. Esq. 159. (_see Amport Park_)

=Priory, the=, 47, the seat of Lord Somers. This is a large house,
formerly a priory, beautified with plantations, and a large sheet of
water, and surrounded with hills, which render the prospect very
romantic.

=Prospect Hill=, 178.

=Purbrook Park=, 32, 214, the seat of Lord Keith. The mansion is a
handsome building, with detached wings and offices, advantageously
situated in a spacious park.

=Purley House=, 53, 55.

Purvis, ---- Esq. 222. (_see Black Brook_)


R.

Radnor, Earl of, 209. (_see Longford Castle_)

=Randall House=, 62, the seat of ---- Bland, Esq. stands on the bank of
the river Mole, in a pleasant park of about sixty acres.

Rashleigh, C. Esq. 127. (_see Duporth_)

Rawlinson, ---- Esq. 84. (_see New Place_)

Redhead, ---- Esq. 94. (_see Burton_)

=Redlynch House=, 173.

=Red Rice=, 101, the seat of Henry Errington, Esq. The house is
delightfully embosomed in woods, surrounded by open downs.

=Restormel Castle=, 126. The mouldering ruins of this celebrated and
once magnificent fortress, rearing its ivy-clad walls above the
contiguous valleys, has a most picturesque and venerable appearance. It
was once a royal residence, and afterwards long inhabited by the Earls
of Cornwall, though now only tenanted by the owl, and similar inmates.
The castle and honour of Restormel is annexed to the Duchy of Cornwall;
but the mansion formerly connected with the estate, and still bearing
the name of Restormel, is the property of Lord Mount Edgecumbe, and in
the occupation of John Hext, Esq.

Rhode, Major, 16.

Richardson, Mrs. 67.

=Richings Lodge=, 175.

Richmond, Duke of, 36, 40, 216. (_see Goodwood and Halnaker House_)

=Richmond Park=, 24. This park was enclosed and planted by Charles the
First, having purchased the rights of common on the wastes of the
respective parishes to whom they belonged. The park contains 2,253
acres, enclosed with a brick wall. The rangership is in the hands of the
King; and the Deputy Ranger is the Countess Dowager of Mansfield.

The new, or stone lodge, built by George the First, was given by his
present Majesty, in 1802, for life, to Viscount Sidmouth, with sixty
acres of land round it. The park also contains several other lodges.

Rich, Sir C. 220. (_see Grove Place_)

Ridge, G. Esq. 61. (_see Morden Park_)

Riversdale, Lord, 176.

=Roch Court=, 98.

=Rockbere House=, 116.

=Rocks, the=, 58.

=Rooksnest=, 55, the seat of ---- Wilkes, Esq. a handsome mansion, with
about 150 acres of land, 140 of which are laid out as a park.

Roper, T. Esq. 1. (_see Lee Place_)

Rose, G. Esq. 92. (_see Cuffnells_)

=Rotherfield Park=, 95.

=Roundham House=, 220.

Rucker, ---- Esq. 23.

=Ruscombe House=, 177, the seat of ---- Cummings, Esq. This is an
elegant modern building.


S.

St. John, ---- Esq. 99. (_see Ash Park_)

Saltonstall, Miss, 25. (_see Hatchford_)

=Saltram=, 122, the seat of Lord Boringdon. This mansion is said to be
the largest in the county, covering an area 135 feet by 170. The
principal suit of apartments is on the ground floor, which are elegantly
fitted up, and adorned with an extensive and valuable collection of
pictures; the upper apartments are also embellished with a number of
fine drawings, by the most celebrated ancient masters, and many good
portraits.

The grounds possess many singular attractions: an extensive diversity of
landscape and massy wood, Plymouth Sound, the Town, Citadel, Mount
Edgecumbe, the Sea, and Harbour, with its endless variety of amusement.
The internal beauties of Saltram are also extremely numerous: a bold
irregularity of surface characterises the grounds, and renders the
variety unceasing. Myrtles are here seen flourishing all the year in the
open air, and oranges and lemons are brought to maturity, and produce
ripe and perfect fruit.

Sanderson, R. Esq. 53. (_see Norbury Farm_)

Sandford, ---- Esq. 193.

Sargent, J. Esq. 39. (_see Wool Lavington_)

=Savernake Lodge=, 182, a seat of the Earl of Aylesbury. A neat modern
building, situated in the midst of the forest; it was erected as a
residence for the present proprietor, when Lord Bruce. Savernake Forest
is the only one in the kingdom belonging to a subject; it embraces an
extent of ground about sixteen miles in circumference, including
Tottenham Park, the family seat. The whole of which is richly wooded,
among which are some remarkably fine oaks.

Sclater, ---- Esq. 99. (_see Tangier_)

Scotland, ---- Esq. 159. (_see Manor House_)

Scott, Sir W. 177. (_see Early Court_)

Selsey, Lord, 36. (_see Cannon House_)

=Send Grove=, 26.

Sergison, Rev. Mr. 50. (_see Cuckfield Place_)

Serle, ---- Esq. 211. (_see Chilworth House_)

=Shawford House=, 78.

=Shaw House=, 180, the seat of Sir Joseph Andrews. This is a large
edifice, built with brick and stone, and is celebrated for having been
the head quarters of Charles the First, at the time of the last battle
of Newbury. In an oak wainscot in one of the rooms, is a hole, said to
be occasioned by a musquet shot fired through one of the windows at the
King, while standing near it. It is an ancient mansion, much enclosed by
wood.

=Shaw House=, 200.

Shelly, Sir T. 218. (_see Castle Goring_)

=Sherborne Castle=, 140, the beautiful seat of Earl Digby, is a singular
structure, both in external appearance, and the arrangement of the
interior, having been erected at different periods, under different
proprietors. The ground plan resembles the Roman letter H. The centre
part, which is the most ancient, was built by Sir Walter Raleigh. The
apartments contain several portraits, and a painting, representing the
celebrated procession of Queen Elizabeth. The park, containing 340
acres, is finely wooded; and from the variety of its grounds, water, &c.
is justly celebrated for its picturesque beauty.

=Sherfield House=, 210.

=Shillinglee Park=, 38.

=Shirley House=, 220.

=Shockerwick=, 186.

Shuldham, ---- Esq. 115. (_see Deer Park_)

=Shute Park=, 114.

=Sion Hill=, 70, an elegant little villa belonging to the Duke of
Marlborough. The house is a handsome building, and the grounds pleasant
and well wooded.

=Sion House=, 70, a seat belonging to the Duke of Northumberland. The
approach to this mansion from the road is ornamented by a beautiful
arch, with an open colonnade, and a handsome lodge on each side, forming
an elegant piece of architecture. Sion House derives its name from a
monastery, founded by Henry the Fifth, the walls of which, with some
alterations, still remain. This magnificent structure is built of
stone, in the form of a hollow square, having at each angle a square
tower, considerably higher than the intermediate parts of the building:
the roof is flat, surrounded by embattled turrets, and the east front is
supported on arches, forming a noble piazza. It is most charmingly
situated in a spacious lawn, on the northern bank of the Thames,
diversified by a pleasing variety of woody scenery, and commanding fine
views of the royal gardens of Richmond. The apartments are spacious,
fitted up and decorated in the antique style, and are worthy of notice
by the curious. The great hall is two stories high, ornamented by
antique marble figures, standing on pedestals.

=Sion House=, 114.

=Slab House=, 189.

=Slindon House=, 42, 216, the seat of the Earl of Newburgh. At the north
end of a well-wooded park, stands this noble old mansion, on a fine
eminence, commanding a magnificent view of the sea to the south,
Chichester Cathedral, and numerous other objects. The internal
arrangements are judicious, and the decorations appropriate, with some
good paintings, chiefly portraits. Here is also an elegant chapel, and a
well-furnished library.

Sloane, Hans, Esq. 86. (_see Paultons Park_)

Smith, W. Esq. 78. (_see Bambridge_)

Somers, Lord, 47. (_see The Priory_)

=South Broom House=, 199.

=Southwick Park=, 214.

Speke, W. Esq. 168. (_see Jordans House_)

Spencer, Earl, 23. (_see Wimbledon Park_)

Spicer, J. Esq. 25. (_see Esher Place_)

=Spring Grove=, 70, a neat house, the summer residence of Sir Joseph
Banks, President of the Royal Society, and celebrated for his great
knowledge in botany.

=Spy Park=, 185, the seat of Col. Thornton. Near the south-west
extremity of the park, on lofty ground, stands the house, commanding a
fine and distant prospect. The structure itself is old, but it is
ornamented with a modern front. It is remarkable as having been once the
property and residence of the celebrated Earl of Rochester.

=Stalbridge Park=, 140.

=Standerwick Court=, 205.

=Standlinch House=, 209. (_now_) =Trafalgar Park=, the seat of Earl
Nelson. This edifice is built of brick, composed of a centre and two
wings. The pleasure grounds are extensive, abundantly supplied with
wood, and bounded on one side by the river Avon, which greatly
heightens the beauty of the scenery. In this neighbourhood are some
delightfully diversified and extensive views.

Stanhope, Earl, 17. (_see Chevening_)

=Stanmer Park=, 60, the seat of the Earl of Chichester. This mansion is
a plain stone edifice, consisting of a centre and two wings, which
together form three sides of a square. The principal front, facing the
east, projects in the centre, and is terminated with a pediment. The
mansion encloses a quadrangular court on the side towards the pleasure
grounds. The park is laid out with much taste and judgment, but the wood
is chiefly young plantations.

Stanwell Place, 174.

Stawell, Lord, 81.

Stead, Col. 180. (_see Donnington Castle_)

Stirling, ---- Esq. 62. (_see Thorn Croft_)

=Stinsford House=, 109.

=Stockton House=, 207.

=Stoke Park=, 175, the seat of John Penn, Esq. one of the most charming
residences in this part of the country. The house is built with brick,
and covered with stucco: it consists of a large square centre, with two
wings. The north front is ornamented with a colonnade, and approached by
a flight of steps leading to the marble hall. The south front, 196 feet
in length, is also adorned with a colonnade, above which is a projecting
portico, sustaining an ornamental pediment. This mansion combines
exterior magnificence with internal elegance and convenience, and is
enriched with some good pictures. The park, though rather flat, commands
some fine views, and is laid out with considerable taste.

=Stoke Place=, 26.

=Stone Castle=, 3, the seat of R. Talbot, Esq. originally a castellated
dwelling; but a small square tower, now standing at the east end of the
present mansion, is the only part that has any appearance of a fortress.

=Stone Quarry House=, 57.

=Stour Head House=, 172, the seat of Sir Richard Colt Hoare, Bart. The
mansion was erected about the year 1721, by Henry Hoare, Esq. ancestor
of the present possessor. Various alterations have subsequently been
made, among which the erection of two wings, in 1798, are the most
considerable, the one of which is appropriated to a picture gallery, and
the other to a library; and, together with the other apartments, contain
an exceedingly valuable and choice collection of paintings, drawings,
books, and curiosities.

The pleasure grounds of Stour Head have an exalted claim to our
attention, being replete with sylvan beauties, and picturesque
varieties. The scenery, naturally grand and diversified, consisting of
ridges of hills, deep narrow vallies, and rivulets, has been most
judiciously cultivated. The sides and summits of the eminences are
clothed with wood; one of the vallies is filled with water, by means of
an artificial dam; and the woods and groves are enlivened throughout
with walks, temples, seats, &c. From the house a close avenue of laurel
hedges leads to the brow of a precipice, beneath which is seen the
village church, and a few neat cottages in a dale; beyond it another
hill rises equally rapid, covered with wood. From this spot a path,
winding through a fine plantation, conducts to a spacious lake, which,
though formed by art, presents a beautifully wild and diversified
appearance, in some places, forming narrow creeks, and at other parts
spreading its expansive bosom “to the garish eye of day.” In many parts
it is enveloped in hanging woods, through which several temples
appearing, greatly increase the beauty of the _coup-d’œil_. The
description here given can convey but a very faint idea of the numerous
beauties contained in these extensive and truly delightful gardens.

Within the grounds is an encampment of a circular form, consisting of a
double ditch and vallum, with entrances towards the east and west: it
occupies the entire ridge of a hill, and from the precipitous nature of
the ground on all sides, must have been of considerable strength. The
area within the outer ditch embraces an extent of seven acres, and its
circuit is upwards of three furlongs. Near this entrenchment rises the
Stour river, contiguous to the springs of which the ground ascends,
rising westward to the summit of a considerable eminence, called King’s
Settle, on which stands a lofty tower, built in honour of Alfred the
Great, by Henry Hoare, Esq. grandfather to the present proprietor of
Stour Head. Its form is triangular, with round towers at each corner,
and it is one hundred and sixty feet high: a flight of steps on the
inside leads to the top, which commands a most extensive and richly
diversified prospect. Over the entrance is a statue of the Saxon Prince,
with a tablet underneath, bearing the following inscription: “=Alfred
the Great=, A. D. 879, on this summit erected his standard against
Danish Invaders. To him we owe the origin of Juries, and the Creation of
a Naval Force. Alfred, the light of a benighted Age, was a Philosopher
and a Christian, the Father of his People, and Founder of the English
Monarchy and Liberties.” Westward of this tower is an immense tumulus,
denominated Jack’s Castle, which, when opened, was found to contain some
burnt bones, with a small lance head of brass, and an axe, made of
Sienite stone. The latter in a very perfect state.

=Stover House=, 118.

=Stratton Park=, 76.

=Streatham Park=, 52, late Mrs. Piozzi.

Stretfield, R. T. Esq. 58. (_see the Rocks_)

=Sulhampsted House=, 178.

Sullivan, Right Hon. John, 175. (_see Richings Lodge_)

=Sutton Place=, 26, the seat of J. W. Weston, Esq. This structure, which
was built about the year 1530, is composed of brick, finished with a
double sculptured plat band of a yellowish brick, running round the top,
with coins and window cases of the same; and, according to the style of
the time in which it was built, is a handsome building. The form is
quadrangular, encompassing an area of near eighty feet square; the
principal entrance being by a gateway, having a lofty hexagonal turret
at each angle, with coins of the yellow brick above mentioned,
alternately charged with R. W. and a Tun, being a quaint device for the
name of the builder, R. Weston. The north side of this edifice is
entirely occupied by a hall, 50 feet long, 25 wide, and 31 high. The
present owner has made great improvements in the house and grounds.


T.

=Tadworth Court=, 47.

Talbot, R. Esq. 3. (_see Stone Castle_)

Talbot, Sir C. H. 63. (_see Chart Park_)

=Tangier=, 99.

Templar, ---- Esq. 118. (_see Stover House_)

Temple, Earl, 84. (_see Avington Park_)

Tessier, L. Esq. 62. (_see Woodcott Park_)

=Thanks=, 123.

Thiselthwayt, ---- Esq. 214. (_see Southwick Park_)

=Thorn Croft=, 62.

Thornton, Col. 185. (_see Spy Park_)

Thoyts, ---- Esq. 178. (_see Sulhampstead House_)

=Tilehurst Place=, 178.

=Tilgate House=, 49.

=Tilney Hall=, 74.

Tinison, ---- Esq. 81. (_see Moor Park_)

=Tortington House=, 217.

Townsend, Henry Hare, Esq. 27. (_see Busbridge Park_)

Tregrehan, 127.

Trelawny, Capt. 124. (_see Coldrinick_)

=Trewithan=, 128, the seat of Sir Christopher Hawkins. The mansion is
spacious, and advantageously situated on elevated ground, commanding
some very extensive views.

Tucker, ---- Esq. 113. (_see Coryton House_)

Turner, ---- Esq. 214. (_see Bedhampton Place_)

=Twyford Lodge=, 78.


U.

=Ugbrook House=, 118, the seat of Lord Clifford. This mansion is
situated on the declivity of an eminence: its form is quadrangular, with
two fronts and four towers, with battlements, and it is rough casted.
The apartments are spacious, elegant, and most superbly decorated,
assisted by a valuable collection of pictures. The library contains an
ample and choice collection of ancient and modern books. The grounds
surrounding this mansion are upwards of seven miles in circumference,
containing every variety of object that constitute beautiful scenery,
happily blended, and forming one of the most enchanting spots
imaginable. On an eminence, in these grounds, is the remains of a Danish
encampment, of an eliptic shape, surrounded with a trench, and overhung
with majestic oaks, from whence the most noble and extensive prospects
are obtained. To attempt a particular description of the internal
beauties of this demesne, would, from the limits of our work, be
absolutely impossible.

=Upland House=, 222.

=Upper Gatton House=, 47, is a handsome mansion, standing on a hill,
surrounded by a park of about 100 acres.

=Upton House=, 220.

Uxbridge, Earl of, 140. (_see Stalbridge Park_) (_see Marquis of
Anglesea_)


V.

=Vale Lodge=, 62.

=Verst=, 112.


W.

Waddington, ---- Esq. 213. (_see Cold Harbour_)

Walcot, ---- Esq. 94.

Wales, H. R. H. the Princess Charlotte of, and H. S. H. the Prince of
Saxe-Cobourg, 25. (_see Claremont Park_)

Walker, ---- Esq. 67. (_see Muntham_)

Walker, ---- Esq. 217. (_see Angmering Park_)

Walsham, ---- Esq. 62.

Ward, ---- Esq. 61. (_see Grove House_)

=Wardour Castle=, 138, the beautiful seat of the noble family of
Arundel. This magnificent mansion is situated on a gentle eminence,
surrounded by a lawn and thick woods, about a mile from the site of the
ancient castle, now only presenting a mass of ivy-crowned ruins, having
been destroyed in two sieges which it sustained in the reign of Charles
the First: the first, against a detachment of the parliament forces,
1300 strong, under Sir Edward Hungerford, with a garrison, consisting of
only 25 men, under the command of the Lady Blanch, Countess of Arundel
(daughter of the Earl of Worcester), who, bravely opposed every effort
of the enemy to obtain possession of the fortress, during a vigorous
bombardment of five days, and at length surrendered upon the most
honourable terms. It was afterwards besieged by the royal army, under
the command of the Earl of Arundel and Sir Francis Doddington. From the
injuries sustained in these sieges, the castle became uninhabitable, and
afterwards, being totally neglected, the all-defacing hand of time has
completed its destruction, leaving not sufficient now remaining to
ascertain even its extent and arrangement. The site of these ruins is
beneath a hill covered with wood, the summit of which commands some
beautiful and distant views. Approaching the new mansion by the
principal entrance to the grounds, on the road between Salisbury and
Shaftesbury, it is discovered in the bosom of a thick grove, and at
length majestically bursts upon the view. The building is composed of
free stone, consisting of a centre and two wings, projecting from the
body on the north side, in a curvilinear form. The entrance towards the
north is handsomely ornamented with pilasters and half columns, of the
Corinthian order: this entrance opens into a spacious hall, which
conducts to the rotunda stair-case, allowed to be the finest specimen of
ornamental architecture in the kingdom. The apartments are numerous,
spacious, and elegant, decorated in the most costly style, enriched with
an extensive and valuable collection of paintings, and many curious
specimens of carved work. In the west wing of the house is the Chapel,
which is most superbly and appropriately embellished. The grounds are
diversified by much inequality of surface, richly ornamented by numerous
plantations, and interspersed with several spacious sheets of water,
most tastefully and happily blended. To the south-east the ruins of the
old castle are seen, over the venerable walls of which the mantling ivy
most luxuriantly spreads its never varying foliage, presenting in the
view from the house, an object strikingly beautiful in this most
picturesque and delightful scene, which is terminated by a fine hanging
wood.

=Warren House=, 16.

Webster, Sir Godfrey, 22. (_see Battle Abbey_)

Wellesley, W. Pole Tilney Long, 74. (_see Tilney Hall_)

=Werrington House=, 152, a seat of the Duke of Northumberland. The house
is desirably situated in a well-wooded park, commanding views richly
diversified and expansive. In front of the house are two structures,
intended as architectural ornaments; one is an artificial ruined castle,
and the other a triumphal arch.

=Westbrook House=, 96.

=Westcomb Park=, 1, the seat of W. Foreman, Esq. This is an ancient
manor, and the house commands some fine prospects.

=West Grinsted Park=, 65, the seat of W. Burrell, Esq. The house is a
handsome stone building.

Westmorland, Earl of, 141. (_see Brympton House_)

Weston, J. W. Esq. 26. (_see Sutton Place_)

Whalley Smythe Gardiner, Sir James, 98. (_see Roch Court_)

=Whatcomb House=, 108.

Wheble, James, Esq. 177. (_see Woodley Lodge_)

White, ---- Esq. 85. (_see Amfield House_)

=White House=, 173.

=White Knights=, 177, the seat of the Duke of Marlborough. The house is
a plain white building, situated nearly in the centre of the grounds,
which are divided by an irregular sheet of water into pasture and arable
lands. The borders of this lake are rendered extremely beautiful, the
lawns which slope gently to its margin being adorned with groves of
trees. An avenue of fine elms leads to the gate at the entrance of the
park, from Reading. The grounds are so disposed, as at proper openings
to admit the most enchanting views of the surrounding country, which,
from this spot, is peculiarly interesting. Here nature, improved by the
hand of art, presents a most beautiful specimen of the mixture of the
agreeable with the useful.

=Whiteway=, 117.

Whitworth, Lord, 18. (_see Knowle Park_)

=Wickham Corner=, 97, 213.

=Wilbury Park=, 160, the seat of Sir C. Mallet, Bart. The house is
composed of stone, built in the reign of Queen Ann, comprising a centre
and two wings corresponding. Internal convenience appears to have been
more studied in the construction of this mansion, than external
splendor. It is well screened with wood, forming a striking contrast to
the almost steril downs of Salisbury Plain, of which this demesne once
formed a part; but by human industry and skill, it is now rendered
fertile, covered with luxuriant and flourishing plantations, and replete
with sylvan beauties.

Wilkes, ---- Esq. 55. (_see Rooksnest_)

Willes, ---- Esq. 181. (_see Hungerford Park_)

Willett, ---- Esq. 90. (_see Merley House_)

Wilmot, ---- Esq. 80. (_see Farnborough Place_)

Wilson, Lady Spencer, 1. (_see Charlton House_)

=Wilton House=, 136, 208, the seat of the Earl of Pembroke. This edifice
is a large and extensive pile, situated in a beautiful park; but from
having been erected at different periods, the styles of architecture are
very dissimilar. The present noble proprietor has considerably enlarged
and improved the mansion. The approach is through a triumphal arch,
which is surmounted by a bold equestrian statue of Marcus Aurelius. In
an extensive gallery, and other apartments, are deposited a choice and
valuable collection of ancient sculpture and paintings. The park is
ornamented with plantations, and through it flows a fine stream of
water, judiciously widened in places, forming beautiful lakes,
embellished with woody islands. It also possesses the advantage of
elevated ground, from whence many picturesque views are obtained.

Wiltshire, ---- Esq. 186. (_see Shockerwick_)

=Wimbledon Park=, 23, the seat of Earl Spencer. The house is a handsome
edifice, finished in 1801, advantageously situated, commanding beautiful
and extensive views. The park, which contains 1200 acres, is planted and
laid out with great taste, adorned with a sheet of water which covers
fifty acres.

Winchester, Bishop of, 81. (_see Farnham Castle_)

=Windmill Hill=, 80.

=Windsor Castle=, 175. This magnificent pile, either viewed as a
fortress, or Royal palace, can never fail to excite the most lively
interest in the spectator; advantageously situated on the summit of a
commanding hill, environed by the most luxuriant and beautifully
diversified country imaginable; through which the pellucid Thames, alike
celebrated for beauty and utility, winds its serpentine course, laving
the foot of the hill on which stands this noble palace, truly worthy to
be the residence of a British Monarch, which honourable distinction,
with little interruption, it has enjoyed since the reign of its founder,
William the Conqueror, to the present time.

In a work like this, the object of which is general information, more
than particular description, a minute detail cannot be entered into, on
a subject sufficient to form a work in itself; replete with every
variety of nature and art. The importance of Windsor Castle, as a
fortress, save in appearance, is entirely superseded, the remaining
appurtenances of which appear to be retained merely as objects of
ornament. The most remarkable part of the building is =The Keep=, or
=Round Tower=, built on a lofty artificial mount, in the centre of the
castle. The beauty and variety of the views from the summit of this
building, extending over a boundless landscape, enriched with the most
luxuriant and highly cultivated scenery, are almost indescribable.

    “Heavens! what a goodly prospect spreads around,
    “Of hills, and dales, and woods, and lawns, and spires,
    “And glittering towns, and gilded streams, till all
    “The stretching landscape into smoke decays!”

    =Thomson.=

On a board placed near the summit of the tower, the names of the
following counties, which are from thence seen, are inscribed:
Middlesex, Essex, Herts, Bucks, Berks, Oxford, Wilts, Hants, Surrey,
Sussex, Kent, and Bedford. The dome of St. Paul’s is also plainly
distinguishable on a clear day.

The state apartments are magnificent, and fitted up in a superb style of
elegance. The furniture is rich; many of the ceilings are finely
painted; and a great number of pictures, by the most eminent masters,
adorn the different chambers, among which are the celebrated =Cartoons=
of Raphael.

The little park occupies the north and east sides, under the terrace of
the castle. It is about four miles in circumference: its grounds are
composed of a pleasing inequality, diversified by groupes of stately
trees, and other woody scenery, extending to the village of Datchet, and
declining towards the Thames.

=Windsor Park=, 71, denominated Great, to distinguish it from the park
contiguous to the Castle. This park is about fourteen miles in
circumference, and since its reversion to =His Majesty= (on the death of
the late Duke of Cumberland), has undergone alterations which render it
at once a scene of beauty and utility, 1400 acres being appropriated to
the purposes of experimental farming; and the remaining 2400 acres,
which together constitute the area of the whole, is laid out in the most
judicious manner possible, well stocked with deer, and comprising every
other requisite necessary to render it worthy of its royal possessor.
Towards the southern extremity of the park is a beautiful and extensive
piece of water, over which is an elegant stone bridge, which, together
with the water, considerably enlivens and adds dignity to the whole.

The royal forest, making a circuit of about 56 miles, abounds with deer,
and every other species of game, and is possessed of every attraction
for the sports of the field, which, with the manly exercises of the
chase, has been the favourite amusements of many successive Kings of
England.

=Winkton House=, 94.

Winterton, Earl of, 38. (_see Shillinglee Park_)

Wither, ---- Esq. 99. (_see Manydown_)

=Wombwell Hall=, 3, the seat of ---- Harman, Esq. The grounds
surrounding the house are most tastefully disposed, and do great credit
to Mr. Repton, the landscape gardener.

=Woodbarrow House=, 188.

Woodbridge, ---- Esq. 48.

=Woodcot Park=, 62.

=Woodlands=, 1. This mansion was erected, and the grounds laid out,
about the year 1772, by John Julius Angerstein, Esq. The front of the
building displays a handsome portico, with statues and basso-relievos at
the sides: the interior is very tastefully fitted up, and contains a
small but well chosen collection of pictures. The grounds are extremely
pleasant; the views of the river, and of the adjacent parts of Essex and
Kent, are very fine. The Botanic Garden has been recently improved by
the erection of a new green-house, &c. and now contains one of the most
extensive collections of curious plants and heaths in the kingdom.

=Woodley Lodge=, 177.

Wood, Sir Mark, 47, 54. (_see Gatton Park_)

=Woolhampton House=, 179, the seat of Lord Falmouth, is a good mansion,
standing on an elevated spot, but well screened with woods. From many
parts of the grounds belonging to this seat, a great variety of pleasing
rural scenery is presented to view. The sides of the hills are composed
of steep and bold irregularities, shelving into deep and solemn
vallies, beautifully adorned by a variety of woody scenery, intermixed
with farms and cottages, and varied by extensive prospects.

=Wool Lavington=, 39, the seat of John Sargent, Esq. the author of “The
Mine,” a poem, which has conferred on him a merited rank among the
modern sons of Genius and Taste.

Upon his marriage with the heir of the ancient families of Garton and
Orme, he rebuilt their former residence in a style of great
accommodation and elegance.

It lies at the foot of an acclivity called Duncton Hill, which, at a
very small distance from the house becoming precipitous, is closely
matted with low wood, or alternately bare and open, which harmonises
with the richly cultivated valley beneath. The view towards the north
commands the rising ground terminating with Tillington and Petworth,
when it becomes indistinct, and is lost in the weald country of Sussex.

=Wooton Court=, 9, the seat of Mrs. Bridges, is finely situated on an
eminence. The house, crowned with wood, makes a conspicuous figure to
the traveller. The grounds are picturesque, and are well varied with
hill and valley.

Worrall, ---- Esq. 63.

=Worting House=, 99.

Wray, ---- Esq. 220. (_see Upton House_)

Wyndham, ---- Esq. 96.


X.

Ximenes, Sir M. 177. (_see Bear Place_)


Z.

=Zeals House=, 164.


END OF INDEX TO THE COUNTRY SEATS.


It is obvious, from the common occurrences of human life, that in the
account of Seats, the Proprietor’s names must ever be subject to
inaccuracy; but the author can with confidence assert, that up to the
period of publication, every possible means has been adopted to obtain
the most accurate information on the subject. As in some few instances,
however, a difference will be found to occur, in the name attached to
the Seat upon the Map, and that mentioned in this Index, the latter must
be adopted as the name of the present Proprietor.




  GENERAL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL
  INDEX
  TO THE
  DIRECT AND CROSS ROADS
  _CONTAINED IN THIS WORK_.

  COMPREHENDING ALL THE
  CITIES, BOROUGHS, MARKET TOWNS, VILLAGES, POST STAGES,
  AND OTHER REMARKABLE OBJECTS,
  WHETHER SITUATED ON, OR CONTIGUOUS TO, THE ROAD,
  WITH A DESCRIPTION OF EACH,
  TOGETHER WITH
  THE DISTANCE OF THE SAME FROM LONDON.


  _The first Column contains the_ =Distance from London=; _then follows
  the Name of the_ =Place= _and_ =County= _in which it is situate, the
  Figures of the Page where it will be found, and a Description of the
  same, together with the Number of Houses and Inhabitants_.

In stating the distances, the fractional parts are dropt, where they do
not amount to three quarters of a mile; where they do the quarter is
added: thus Bromley, which in the rout (page 16) appears to be nine
miles and three quarters from London, is given in the Index as ten:
where the same place occurs more than once, the difference of distance
is not noted, the first distance only being set down; but it may be
instantly seen by turning to the page.

N. B. In this Index the Cities are printed in Capitals, as BATH; the
Boroughs and Market Towns in small Capitals, as =Dorchester=; and every
other Place, or object in print, as Bagshot.


Dist.|A.
     |
   66|=Abbots Ann=, Hants, 101, a parish and market town, containing 85
     |houses, and 457 inhabitants.
     |
   71|Abbots Wood, Hants, 85.
     |
   72|Abbots Wood Common, Hants, 86.
     |
   68|Acol, Kent, 12.
     |
  176|Adderwater, Devon, 147.
     |
  203|Alder, Devon, 151.
     |
     |Alderbury, Wilts, 209. This village is pleasantly situated on a
     |healthy hill, in a good sporting country. In 1777 a fire here
     |destroyed 100 houses. It now contains 78 houses, and 430
     |inhabitants.
     |
  104|Alfred’s Tower, Wilts, 172, a monument erected to Alfred the
     |Great, who, in 878, fixed his standard against the Danish invaders
     |on this spot. (_See Index of Seats, Stourhead House_)
     |
  135|Allington, Dorset, 111. A parish containing 63 houses, and 716
     |inhabitants.
     |
  174|Alphington, Devon, 117. A parish containing 98 houses, and 845
     |inhabitants.
     |
   57|=Alresford=, Hants, 83. A parish and market town. The name
     |signifies the Ford of Alre. The river on which it is situated now
     |called the Itching, rises at no great distance. The church, a very
     |neat structure, with a beautiful tower, was taken down and rebuilt
     |in 1753. The parsonage house is a handsome edifice, rebuilt by the
     |late Chancellor Hoadley. Here is a large pond, covering near 200
     |acres of ground, which being well stocked with swans, and other
     |water fowl, presents a pleasing appearance. It contains about 196
     |houses, and 1132 inhabitants; and has a market on Thursday.
     |
  220|Alternan, Cornwall, 153.
     |
   47|=Alton=, Hants, 82, 95. A market town and parish, situated on the
     |river Wey. The town consists of three streets; the principal one
     |is wide and modern, and it has a small neat church. Its chief
     |manufactures are druggets, serges, and a variety of worsted goods;
     |in the neighbourhood are several hop plantations. The market is on
     |Saturday, and the parish contains 375 houses, and 2026
     |inhabitants.
     |
   48|Alton Buffs, Hants, 82.
     |
  122|Alvington, Somerset, 141.
     |
   78|=Amesbury=, Wilts, 161. A market town and parish, pleasantly
     |situated in an open country on the river Avon; and is of some
     |antiquity, having the ruins of a venerable abbey.
     |
     |The town consists principally of two streets, the church standing
     |in the intersection. It contains 397 houses, and 2130 inhabitants.
     |Market on Friday. This place gave birth to the celebrated Mr.
     |Addison. The neighbourhood produces the best kind of clay for
     |tobacco pipes, and the river a delicious little fish, called a
     |loach. Near Amesbury is a Roman camp (_see Vespasian’s Camp_), and
     |about two miles distant is Stonehenge, which attracts numerous
     |travellers here.
     |
     |The true origin of this stupendous structure yet remains a matter
     |of doubt; it is a subject on which our antiquarians widely differ
     |in opinion, but the majority have pronounced it to be the ruins of
     |a Druidical temple. Seventeen huge stones are now standing, which,
     |with seven others lying on the ground, form the outward circular,
     |or oval range: the inward circle is about eight feet from the
     |outward one, and has eleven stones standing, and eight fallen;
     |between these two circles is a walk of about three hundred feet in
     |circumference, the appearance of the whole from which is
     |singularly awful and surprising. The stones are from eighteen to
     |twenty feet high, from six to seven broad, and about three feet
     |thick; round it are numerous barrows, covered with earth, raised
     |chiefly in the form of a bell. Many of those which have been
     |opened have contained human skeletons, urns, and military weapons.
     |
     |From Stonehenge an avenue about half a mile long, between two
     |ditches, leads to the Cursus, which is two miles in length, and
     |enclosed by two ditches, three hundred and fifty feet asunder,
     |having a bank, or long barrow, at each end.
     |
     |Dr. Stukeley fixes the date of the erection of Stonehenge, four
     |hundred and sixty years before Christ.
     |
   79|Amesbury, Little, Wilts, 161. (_Population included with
     |Amesbury_)
     |
   70|Amfield, Hants, 85.
     |
  121|Amphitheatre, (commonly called Maumbury) Dorset, 171. This
     |amphitheatre is allowed to be the most perfect of its kind
     |remaining in England. It is situated on a plain in the open
     |fields, and is raised on the solid chalk upon a level; the jambs
     |at the entrance are somewhat worn away. Half the work is above
     |five feet and a half under the surface of the ground; probably it
     |was framed of solid chalk, cemented by mortar made of burnt chalk,
     |and covered with turf.
     |
     |This amphitheatre consists of about an acre of ground, and is
     |supposed to have been made under the government of Agricola. The
     |number of spectators it was capable of accommodating is computed
     |at near 13,000. The views from the top of the mound are extensive,
     |including Poundbury, Maiden Castle, and the southern hills covered
     |with barrows.
     |
   64|=Andover=, Hants, 101, 159. A borough and market town; it is a
     |healthy and populous place, carrying on a considerable traffic in
     |shalloons, malting, &c. and sends two members to parliament. On
     |two hills in the neighbourhood are the appearance of Roman
     |encampments. The market house is a handsome modern building,
     |standing in a large open square; over it is the council room, in
     |which the public business is transacted. The church is an ancient
     |structure. It has a market on Saturday, and contains 657 houses,
     |and 3304 inhabitants. Four miles distant is held the celebrated
     |annual fair of Weyhill, being the largest in England for cattle,
     |sheep, hops, cheese, &c. and lasts fourteen days from the 10th of
     |October.
     |
     |Angmering, Sussex, 217. A parish containing 79 houses, and 708
     |inhabitants.
     |
   66|Ann, Little, Hants, 101.
     |
   95|Ansty, Wilts, 137. A parish containing 50 houses, and 242
     |inhabitants.
     |
  221|Anthony, Cornwall, 123. A parish containing 254 houses, and 1795
     |inhabitants.
     |
  170|Appledore, South, Devon, 195.
     |
  117|Arno’s Vale, Somerset, 203.
     |
   61|=Arundel=, Sussex, 44, 217. A borough and market town, seated on
     |the side of the river Arun, over which is a bridge; and the river
     |is navigable for barges. Here stands on a hill, Arundel Castle
     |(_see Index of Seats_). The town is delightfully situated on the
     |declivity of a hill, and is a borough by prescription, so ancient
     |as to be mentioned in King Alfred’s will. In the church are four
     |stately monuments of the Earls of Arundel. Here formerly was an
     |harbour capable of containing ships of 100 tons burthen, though it
     |is now much ruined by the sea. Arundel sends two members to
     |parliament; has a market on Wednesday and Saturday, and contains
     |334 houses, and 1855 inhabitants.
     |
     |Arundel Coverts, Sussex, 217.
     |
   52|Ash, Hants, 99. A parish containing 14 houses, and 95 inhabitants.
     |
  191|=Ashburton=, Devon, 119. A borough and market town, standing in a
     |valley nearly encompassed with hills. Here is a handsome church,
     |built in the form of a cathedral; on the cross is a large square
     |tower, 90 feet high, over which is a small spire; it was once
     |collegiate, and part of the stalls are now standing. Ashburton
     |sends two members to parliament, and is one of the four stannary
     |towns of Devon, (the other three being Chigford, Plympton, and
     |Tavistock), having several good tin and copper mines in the
     |neighbourhood, which are very productive; it has also a
     |manufactory for serge. The town gives the title of baron to the
     |family of Dunning. It has a market on Tuesday and Saturday; and
     |contains 370 houses, and 3080 inhabitants.
     |
   52|Ashcomb, Sussex, 60.
     |
  136|Ashcot, Somerset, 191. A parish containing 71 houses, and 358
     |inhabitants.
     |
   33|Ashdown Forest, Sussex, 57.
     |
     |Ashfield, Hants, 220.
     |
   47|Ashington, Sussex, 66. A parish containing 28 houses, and 173
     |inhabitants.
     |
   92|Ashley Cross, Hants, 88.
     |
  101|Ashley Green, Wilts, 186.
     |
  102|Ashley Wood, Wilts and Somerset, 186, 201.
     |
   16|Ashstead, Surrey, 62. This village is delightfully situated near
     |the spring of the Epsom Wells, and contains 91 houses, and 552
     |inhabitants. In the church are some handsome monuments. Here King
     |Charles the Second was entertained, and the table is still
     |preserved on which he dined.
     |
     |Ashton Gifford, Wilts, 207. (_Population included with Codford St.
     |Peter’s_)
     |
  131|Askerwell, Dorset, 111. This village is pleasantly situated in a
     |vale, enclosed on all sides with high hills. It contains 30
     |houses, and 170 inhabitants.
     |
  129|Askerwell Down, Dorset, 111.
     |
   99|Atford, Wilts, 200.
     |
   98|Atford Common, Wilts, 200.
     |
  181|Atherleigh Mill, Devon, 196.
     |
  254|=Austle, St.= Cornwall, 127. A market town, in the environs of
     |which are several tin mines, and quarries of porcelain clay, which
     |is sent to Liverpool, Bristol, and Staffordshire, for the
     |potteries.
     |
     |The church is an ancient massy building; about the tower are many
     |curious ornaments and decorations. The market, which is held on
     |Friday, is well supplied with all kinds of provisions. It contains
     |663 houses, and 3788 inhabitants.
     |
   81|Avebury, Wilts, 183, 198. This village contains 115 houses, and
     |590 inhabitants, and is remarkable for the stupendous remains of a
     |Druid’s temple, being a collection of huge stones, like that on
     |Salisbury Plain. (_see Druidical Temple_)
     |
   80|Avenue, The, Wilts, 161. (_see Amesbury_)
     |
   62|Avington, Berks, 181. A parish containing 13 houses, and 57
     |inhabitants.
     |
     |Avisford Hill, Sussex, 217.
     |
   96|Avon, Hants, 94.
     |
  114|Avon Mills Bridge, Somerset, 202.
     |
  146|=Axminster=, Devon, 113, 144. A market town, deriving its name
     |from the river Axe, on which it stands: and the minster, or
     |monastery, erected here by Athelstan for seven priests to pray for
     |the souls of those killed in his army, when he defeated the Danes
     |in the neighbouring field, which is still called King’s Field. The
     |town is clean and neat, and reckoned very healthy. Here is a
     |considerable manufactory for broad and narrow cloth, but more
     |particularly for carpets; also for cotton tapes, druggets, leather
     |breeches, and gloves. The market, reckoned the first in the
     |county, is held on Saturday. It contains 456 houses, and 2387
     |inhabitants.
     |
     |
     |B.
     |
  119|Babylon Hill, Dorset, 141.
     |
     |Badsley Common, Hants, 211.
     |
   26|Bagshot, Surrey, 72. This place is famous for its excellent mutton
     |brought here from the Hampshire Downs; it was formerly called
     |_Holy Hall_; and here our kings had a house and park, which was
     |laid open after the civil wars: the church was rebuilt in 1676,
     |after having been destroyed by lightning. It contains 182 houses,
     |and 1136 inhabitants.
     |
   21|Bagshot Heath, Surrey, 72, is mostly a barren desert, but upon its
     |borders are a great number of handsome seats.
     |
   21|Bailies, Bucks, 175.
     |
  228|Bake Lane End, Cornwall, 124.
     |
  186|Bakes, Devon, 148.
     |
  141|Balay Down, Dorset, 145.
     |
    5|Balham Hill, Surrey, 45.
     |
     |Ball’s Hut, Sussex, 216.
     |
  211|Bamham, Higher, Cornwall, 152.
     |
  211|Bamham, Lower, Cornwall, 152.
     |
   15|Bansted Common, Surrey, 47.
     |
   12|Bansted Downs, Surrey, 46. This is one of the most delightful
     |spots in England, having a command of prospect for 30 miles round,
     |including a view of the royal palaces of Windsor and Hampton
     |Court, London and Westminster. The turf here is of the most
     |beautiful verdure, intermixed with thyme and other fragrant herbs,
     |which renders the mutton fed upon the Downs particularly sweet. On
     |these Downs is Epsom Race Course, much frequented in the season.
     |In the neighbourhood are many elegant seats.
     |
   41|Bapchild, Kent, 6. This village contains 48 houses, and 224
     |inhabitants. In the church window are many remains of painted
     |glass, particularly of the arms of the see of Canterbury. On the
     |north side of the road are the remains of the building which was
     |used as a resting place by the pilgrims who visited St. Thomas
     |à-Becket’s shrine at Canterbury.
     |
     |Bapton, Wilts, 207. (_Population included with Fisherton de la
     |Mere_)
     |
   87|Barford, Wilts, 136. A parish containing 91 houses, and 450
     |inhabitants.
     |
   88|Barford Heath, Wilts, 136.
     |
   59|Barham Downs, Kent, 8. A most delightful spot, where the
     |Canterbury races are annually held in August. The course has been
     |extended from two to four miles, and a handsome building erected
     |for the accommodation of the visitors.
     |
  185|Barn, New, Devon, 148.
     |
   96|Barn, New, Wilts, 137.
     |
  230|Barron Down, Cornwall, 155.
     |
  126|Barrows, Somerset, 142.
     |
   45|=Basingstoke=, Hants, 75, 99, 131. A market town of some
     |antiquity, pleasantly situated in a fine open country. The church
     |is ancient; near it stands a free school, and it has also three
     |charity schools, one of which is supported by the Skinners’
     |Company of London. The remains of the chapel of the Holy Ghost
     |stands on a considerable eminence near the town; it was formerly a
     |fine edifice, richly ornamented with scriptural pictures. The town
     |has a manufactory of druggets and shalloons, and has a good market
     |house, and a town hall over it, where the sessions are held twice
     |a year, and the magistrates meet weekly. It contains 501 houses,
     |and 2589 inhabitants, and the market on Wednesday is very
     |considerable for provisions, corn, and cattle.
     |
  106|BATH, Somerset, 187, 201, 204. The city of Bath is justly esteemed
     |the most elegant town in England. The hot baths, from which it
     |derives its name, were known in the Roman times; nor was their
     |celebrity lost even in the dark period of Anglo Saxon history. But
     |the town has been greatly enlarged and decorated in the last
     |century. The waters are used both internally and externally,
     |chiefly in gout, bilious, and paralytic cases, being frequented
     |twice in the year, what is called the spring and autumnal seasons.
     |Two-thirds of the company are attracted merely by amusement,
     |society, and dissipation; in all of which it is only second to
     |London. But so great are the attractions of this celebrated spot,
     |and the reputation of these waters has so much increased, that
     |Bath has become the constant residence, not only of many opulent
     |invalids, but also of numerous votaries of pleasure.
     |
     |The baths consist of the King’s, the Queen’s, the Cross, the Hot,
     |the Corporation, and the Duke of Kingston’s Baths. The taste of
     |the water is pleasant, impregnated with a vitriolic principle,
     |which yields, upon evaporation, a small portion of neutral salt,
     |with a calcareous earth and iron. At the King’s Bath is a handsome
     |pump room, where the company drink the waters in the morning, and
     |where an excellent band of music enlivens the scene.
     |
     |The amusements of this gay city are various, rational, and well
     |conducted. They consist chiefly of assemblies, balls, concerts,
     |card parties, and public breakfasts; besides the theatre. There
     |are two sets of assembly rooms, termed the Upper and Lower, where
     |the amusements are alternately held: the former of these stands on
     |the walks leading from the Grove to the Parade; and the latter, on
     |the east side of the Circus.
     |
     |The city, except a little opening to the east and west, through
     |which the Avon passes, is surrounded on all sides by hills. It has
     |an elegant bridge, and the river has been made navigable to
     |Bristol. It was formerly surrounded with a slight wall, of which
     |there still appears some remains, as well as one or two of its
     |gates. Most of the new buildings, and by far the largest and
     |finest part of the city, are without the walls, particularly Queen
     |Square, in the midst of which is a garden, with gravel walks, and
     |an obelisk in the centre; but a principal ornament is the Circus,
     |the houses of which are built on a uniform plan, with three
     |openings at equal distances, leading into as many streets. The
     |fronts of the houses are adorned with three rows of columns, in
     |pairs, of the Doric, Ionic, and Corinthian orders, and the frieze
     |embellished with sculpture. In the centre is a reservoir of water,
     |filled from springs rising in the neighbouring hills.
     |
     |On the north and south sides of the town are the north and south
     |parades, paved with hewn stone, raised upon arches, having an
     |elegant row of houses on one side, and a stone balustrade
     |opposite. Among the late improvements of Bath, the Royal Crescent
     |forms a striking feature, standing upon an eminence. Behind the
     |crescent is St. James’s Square, which, with Landsdown Crescent,
     |Catherine Place, Rivers Street, &c. enjoys every advantage of air,
     |prospect, and scenery. Orange Grove, between the Abbey Church and
     |the lower rooms, is a beautiful open area, planted with rows of
     |elms, &c. The Guildhall is situated in the high street. Here is a
     |noble infirmary, or general hospital, for the sick and lame from
     |all parts of the kingdom. It is 100 feet in front, and 90 in
     |depth, capable of containing 150 patients. It was built in 1738,
     |by William Pulteney, afterwards Earl of Bath. The monastery here,
     |of which the cathedral was the church, was a truly venerable pile;
     |the other churches are St. James, St. Michael, the Abbey Church,
     |or St. Peter and St. Paul, Walcot, and Christ’s Church. There are
     |several chapels and meeting houses, as well as hospitals,
     |almshouses, and charity schools.
     |
     |Bath is governed by a mayor, recorder, aldermen, twenty common
     |council, and a town clerk; sends two members to parliament; and,
     |joined with Wells, forms a bishoprick, called the diocese of Bath
     |and Wells. The number of aldermen, out of which the mayor and two
     |justices are chosen, is not to exceed ten, or be less than four:
     |and out of the common council are yearly elected two bailiffs, or
     |sheriffs, and two constables. The senior of the common council is
     |always the chamberlain. The markets are here principally on
     |Wednesday and Saturday, and are plentifully supplied with all
     |kinds of provision: excellent mutton is produced from the feed on
     |Lansdown, one of the highest hills which overlooks the city, about
     |three miles in extent, on which is annually held, on the 10th of
     |August, a fair for horses, cheese, and all kinds of merchandise.
     |The fish market, on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday, far excels that
     |of any inland town in the kingdom. Bath contains 4279 houses, and
     |31,496 inhabitants, exclusive of the out parishes of Bath Hampton,
     |Bathwick, Bathford, and Batheaston, which contain 670 houses, and
     |4514 inhabitants.
     |
  104|Batheaston, Somerset, 187, 201. (_For Population see Bath_)
     |
  103|Bathford, Somerset, 186, 201. A Roman pavement was discovered
     |here, in the seventeenth century, in digging a cellar. (_for
     |Population see Bath_)
     |
  104|Bath Hampton, Somerset, 187, 201. (_for Population see Bath_)
     |
  154|Bath Pool, Somerset, 193.
     |
  106|Bathwick, Somerset, 187, 201, 204. (_For Population, see Bath._)
     |
    5|Battersea Rise, Surrey, 23.
     |
   56|=Battle=, Sussex, 22. A market town and parish. The old name of
     |this place, was Epiton, but it took its present appellation from
     |the famous battle of Hastings, gained by William the Conqueror
     |over Harold, in 1066; the Conqueror having first landed near
     |Pevensey, a few miles distant. In memory of this victory, William
     |founded here a celebrated abbey, called Battle Abbey; one of those
     |religious houses which had, anciently, the privilege of sanctuary.
     |From its remains, it appears to have been very magnificent, being
     |near a mile in circumference; its abbot was mitred. The gate-house
     |is entire and is now converted into a place for holding the
     |sessions, and other public meetings. On one part of the site of
     |the abbey stands a mansion, belonging to Sir Godfrey Webster,
     |called the Abbey. (_See Index of Seats_)
     |
     |The town stands in a valley, and is reckoned rather unhealthy from
     |its situation. Near this town is Beacon Hill, formerly called
     |Standard Hill, where the standard of the Conqueror was first
     |planted. There are several powder mills in the neighbourhood; and
     |the town has been long famous for the best gunpowder in Europe.
     |The weekly market is on Thursday, which, till 1600, was held on
     |Sunday; it has also a very large market on the second Tuesday in
     |every month. It contains 291 houses, and 2040 inhabitants.
     |
  142|Bawdrip, Somerset, 192. A parish containing 51 houses, and 244
     |inhabitants.
     |
  106|Bayford, Somerset, 165.
     |
  233|Beacon Hill, Cornwall, 155.
     |
   75|Beacon Hill, Wilts, 160.
     |
  166|Beam Bridge, Somerset, 194.
     |
  197|Bearah, Devon, 120.
     |
   28|Bear Green, Surrey, 63.
     |
   45|Bears In Gate, Sussex, 66.
     |
   81|Beckhampton, Wilts, 184, 198. A tything to the parish of Avebury,
     |containing 18 houses, and 99 inhabitants.
     |
     |Beckington, Somerset, 205. This village contains several streets,
     |and was formerly of considerable importance, particularly in the
     |manufacture of woollens; some of which are still made here. The
     |houses are built of stone, in number 247, containing 1469
     |inhabitants.
     |
   13|Bedfont, Middlesex, 70. A parish containing 82 houses, and 456
     |inhabitants.
     |
     |Bedhampton, Hants, 214. A parish containing 52 houses, and 305
     |inhabitants.
     |
   87|Bedhampton, Wilts, 162, 207.
     |
     |Bedhampton, Little, Wilts, 207.
     |
   68|Bedwin, Little, Wilts, 182. A parish containing 81 houses, and 428
     |inhabitants.
     |
  194|Beer Bridge, Devon, 149.
     |
  200|Beggars Bush, Devon, 120.
     |
  276|Belle Vue, Cornwall, 130.
     |
  240|Belovely, Cornwall, 156.
     |
   82|Bemerton, Wilts, 136, 208, (_Population included with
     |Fugglestone_)
     |
     |Bemont, Wilts, 209.
     |
   57|Benges Wood, Sussex, 39, 42.
     |
   42|Bentley, Hants, 81. Here is an extensive hop plantation, and the
     |hamlet contains 94 houses, and 504 inhabitants.
     |
   42|Bentley Green, Hants, 81.
     |
   62|Bere Forest, Hants, 31.
     |
  233|Berry Tower, Cornwall, 155.
     |
   68|Bersted, South, Sussex, 41, 42. This village contains 94 houses,
     |and 737 inhabitants.
     |
   84|Berwick Down, Wilts, 161.
     |
   93|Berwick, St. Leonard’s, Wilts, 163. A parish containing only 8
     |houses, and 36 inhabitants.
     |
   11|Bexley Heath, Kent, 2.
     |
  188|Bickington, Devon, 119. A hamlet and chapelry to the parish of
     |Ashburton, containing 40 houses, and 243 inhabitants.
     |
  202|Bidlake, Great, Devon, 151.
     |
  202|Bidlake, Little, Devon, 151.
     |
  123|Bincomb Down, Dorset, 171.
     |
   57|Binderton, Sussex, 36. A hamlet containing 4 houses, and 53
     |inhabitants.
     |
     |Birch Wood, Hants, 210.
     |
   16|Birch Wood, Surrey, 47.
     |
   86|Bishops Cannings, Wilts, 198. A parish containing 212 houses, and
     |1108 inhabitants.
     |
   93|Bishops Fonthill, Wilts, 163. A parish containing 39 houses, and
     |194 inhabitants.
     |
  158|Bishops Hull, Somerset, 194. A parish containing 96 houses, and
     |683 inhabitants.
     |
   56|Bishops Sutton, Hants, 83. A village containing 60 houses, and 379
     |inhabitants.
     |
  202|Bittaford Bridge, Devon, 121.
     |
  117|Black Castle, Somerset, 203.
     |
     |Black Dog, Wood, Wilts and Somerset, 205.
     |
  111|Blackford, Somerset, 165. A village, containing 26 houses, and 159
     |inhabitants.
     |
    5|Black Heath, Kent, 1. Situated on the South side of Greenwich; a
     |most beautiful spot, commanding extensive prospects over the
     |adjacent country and the river Thames, having a full view of the
     |Ranger’s house in the park, Greenwich hospital, the new docks at
     |Poplar, a multitude of shipping, and a distant view of the
     |metropolis; it was on this plain that the Kentish rebel, Wat
     |Tyler, mustered 100,000 men. In the park is the Royal Observatory
     |for the King’s astronomers, to which there is a steep ascent on
     |all sides except one, and it has a deep dry well for observations
     |in the day time. On the right stands Morden College, built by Sir
     |John Morden, for decayed Turkey merchants; and in the
     |neighbourhood are many beautiful villas.
     |
     |In 1780, a cavern was discovered on the side of the ascent to
     |Blackheath by the Dover road, consisting of seven large rooms,
     |from 12 to 36 feet wide; the whole range having a communication by
     |arched avenues: some of these apartments have large conical domes,
     |36 feet high, supported by a column of chalk, 43 yards in
     |circumference; the bottom of the cavern is 50 feet from the
     |entrance, and at the extremities 160 feet, the descent to which is
     |by a flight of steps; the sides and roofs are also rocks of chalk,
     |and the bottom a fine dry sand. 170 feet under ground is a well of
     |clear water, 27 feet deep.
     |
  187|Blackpool, Devon, 118.
     |
  103|Blackstone, Dorset, 139.
     |
   30|Blackwater, Hants, 73.
     |
  104|=Blandford=, Dorset, 107. A market town and parish, pleasantly
     |situated on the river Stour, near the Downs; its principal
     |manufactures consist of thread, and shirt buttons.
     |
     |The town is very ancient, and appears to have been a settlement of
     |the Britons long before the arrival of the Romans. It gave the
     |title of Marquis to John Churchill, Duke of Marlborough, which has
     |still descended in the family; and formerly sent members to
     |parliament. The church is a neat structure, in the Grecian style.
     |The streets are handsome, and the houses in general well built of
     |brick. It has suffered more by fires than any other town in
     |England. Blandford contains 405 houses, and 2326 inhabitants; and
     |has a market on Saturday, which is well supplied.
     |
  101|Blandford Race Course, Dorset, 107.
     |
  250|Blazey, St., Cornwall, 127. A township to the parish of St.
     |Austle, situated upon an inlet from the Sea, and containing 87
     |houses, and 467 inhabitants.
     |
  222|Blerack, Cornwall, 123.
     |
   24|Blindley Heath, Surrey, 56.
     |
   74|Blockhouse, Hants, 98.
     |
   44|Bloom End, Berks, 178.
     |
     |Bodenham, Wilts, 209. A parish containing 50 houses, and 221
     |inhabitants.
     |
  233|=Bodmin=, Cornwall, 155. A borough and market town, standing
     |almost in the centre of the county, between two hills. This place
     |appears to have been very considerable some centuries past; having
     |a bishop’s see erected here by King Edward, in 905: but, during
     |the Danish wars, translated to St. Germain’s, and afterwards to
     |Kirton in Devonshire, and thence to Exeter, where it remains. It
     |sends two members to parliament, which it has done ever since the
     |reign of Edward the First. The town consists chiefly of one long
     |street, running east and west for nearly a mile; the church is an
     |ancient fabric, but the spire was destroyed in 1699 by lightning.
     |The summer Assizes, and Michaelmas Quarter Sessions are held here,
     |and the new county gaol and bridewell, form a handsome building,
     |well situated for the health of the prisoners, and built after the
     |Howardian plan.
     |
     |There is a remarkable well near the town, the water of which is
     |heavier than most others; and will keep pure the greater part of a
     |year. In the neighbourhood are some monumental stones, called the
     |_Hurlers_, supposed to be the remains of a Druid’s temple, they
     |stand on a down in three circles.
     |
     |This place is noted in history for being the head quarters of
     |Perkin Warbeck, who styled himself the son of Edward the Fourth;
     |and here Humphrey Arundel, governor of St. Michael’s Mount, in the
     |reign of Edward the Sixth, collected an army of 10,000 men. It has
     |a good market on Saturday, well supplied with corn and all kinds
     |of provisions. Bodmin contains 325 houses, and 2299 inhabitants.
     |
  234|Bodmin Down, Cornwall, 155.
     |
  223|Bodmin Moor, Cornwall, 154.
     |
  235|Bodwanic, Cornwall, 155.
     |
   70|Bognor, Sussex, 41, 42. This village is much frequented in the
     |summer season for sea bathing. It is an extensive assemblage of
     |modern brick buildings, without any regular plan; which originated
     |with the speculation of the proprietor, the late Sir Richard
     |Hotham. It has a new assembly room near the sea, and a very neat
     |modern chapel.
     |
   88|Bolbury, or Bilbury Rings, Wilts, 162. This encampment occupies a
     |point of Down, projecting from the great ridge, and is supposed to
     |be of British origin. It is defended on the east by double, and on
     |the west by triple entrenchments; the outward one being very broad
     |and flat. The exterior vallum is 990 yards in circuit, and the
     |ramparts 20 feet high, including an area of seventeen acres and a
     |quarter; within which is another work of an irregular form. Many
     |British and Roman antiquities have been here discovered. It has
     |several entrances, some of which appear to be of modern formation.
     |
     |Boreham, Wilts, 206. (_Population included with Warminster._)
     |
  252|Boscovean, Cornwall, 127.
     |
   50|Bosenden Wood, Kent, 7.
     |
     |Bosham, Sussex, 215. This village stands on the east point of land
     |at the entrance of Bosham Creek.
     |
     |The only thing worthy of notice in this place is the church, a
     |spacious Gothic building, erected at the expence of the bishop of
     |Exeter, in 1119, in the reign of Henry the First. It was made
     |collegiate for a dean and prebendary, and enjoyed many privileges
     |till the general dissolution, when it was made parochial. The
     |stalls are still standing, over which are some curious ancient
     |carving,
     |
     |Bosham Creek, Sussex, 215.
     |
     |Bosham Pound, Sussex, 215.
     |
     |Botley, Hants, 212. A parish containing 98 houses, and 614
     |inhabitants.
     |
   49|Boughton, Kent, 7. A parish containing 174 houses, and 884
     |inhabitants. The church has two aisles, and contains several very
     |ancient monuments; it has also a very good stone tower, the spire
     |of which fell down about the close of the sixteenth century. It
     |has two charity schools, in which one hundred children are
     |educated. In 1716, a complete human skeleton was dug up, near the
     |road side, with a hanger, and a brass coin of Antoninus Pius.
     |Adjoining was anciently Blean Forest, which abounded with boars,
     |wolves, and other animals of chase.
     |
   50|Boughton Hill, Kent, 7. This hill commands a most extensive and
     |beautiful prospect.
     |
  104|Bourton, Dorset, 164. A hamlet containing 112 houses, and 637
     |inhabitants.
     |
  103|Bourton Bridge, Dorset, 164.
     |
  185|Bovey Heath, Devon, 118.
     |
  108|Bow Bridge, Somerset, 139.
     |
   94|Bower, Wilts, 199.
     |
   94|Bower Island, Wilts, 199.
     |
  178|Bowhill, Devon, 196.
     |
  101|Box, Wilts, 186. A parish containing 210 houses, and 1165
     |inhabitants.
     |
     |Boxgrove, Sussex, 216. A parish containing 131 houses, and 682
     |inhabitants.
     |
   21|Box Hill, Surrey, 63. This hill derives its name from the number
     |of box trees growing on it, planted by the Earl of Arundel in the
     |reign of Charles the First. These groves are interspersed with a
     |number of small open spaces and agreeable walks; from whence, on a
     |clear day, the prospect is beautifully varied and extensive, the
     |immediate vicinity of the hill being greatly enlivened by the
     |windings of the river Mole.
     |
     |A few years ago, an eccentric man, requested to be buried on the
     |summit of this hill, in an _erect posture_; and, at his decease,
     |this singular request was complied with. In the neighbourhood are
     |a number of gentlemen’s seats.
     |
     |Boyton, Wilts, 207. A parish containing 41 houses, and 248
     |inhabitants.
     |
  122|Bradford Down, Dorset, 110.
     |
  123|Bradford Heath, Dorset, 110.
     |
  239|Bradock Common, Cornwall, 125.
     |
  178|=Bradninch=, Devon, 196. This town is nearly a mile in length
     |consisting chiefly of one large irregular street, and the houses
     |but indifferently built. Its principal manufacture is paper. It
     |formerly sent members to parliament till the reign of Henry the
     |Seventh, but on a complaint that the inhabitants were not able to
     |pay them their wages, 2_s._ _per_ day, they were excused on the
     |payment of five marks. The church is an ancient Gothic building.
     |It contains 247 houses, and 1187 inhabitants, and has a trifling
     |market on Tuesday.
     |
  199|Brent Bridge, Devon, 120.
     |
    7|=Brentford=, Middlesex, 69, a market town. It is divided into New
     |and Old Brentford, and is named from the small river Brent, over
     |which it had a ford, and which here empties itself into the
     |Thames. The church was originally built in the reign of Edward the
     |First, being a chapel of ease to Great Ealing, and was rebuilt,
     |except the tower, in 1654. This place affords employment to its
     |numerous poor, having a flour mill on the same construction as the
     |late Albion Mills, formerly situated at the foot of Blackfriars
     |Bridge; a large pottery, extensive brick fields, and a very large
     |malt distillery.
     |
     |At the extremity of New Brentford, towards London, on the opposite
     |side of the Thames, is Kew Palace, formerly the occasional
     |residence of His Majesty; near which, on the banks of the Thames,
     |His Majesty has erected a magnificent Gothic building, said to
     |have been intended as a residence for the Queen.
     |
     |The members of parliament for the county are here chosen, and the
     |market on Tuesday is well supplied with all kinds of provision,
     |corn, cattle, &c. Brentford contains 304 houses, and 1733
     |inhabitants.
     |
  197|Brent Harberton Ford, Devon, 120.
     |
  199|Brent, South, Devon, 120. A parish containing 163 houses, and 1032
     |inhabitants.
     |
   97|Brickers, Wilts, 186.
     |
  200|Bridestow, Devon, 150. A parish containing 91 houses, and 581
     |inhabitants.
     |
  230|Bridge, Cornwall, 124.
     |
   58|Bridge, Kent, 8. This village is situated in a valley, by the side
     |of the river Stour; and contains 42 houses, and 325 inhabitants.
     |
  126|Bridge, Somerset, 168.
     |
  245|Bridge End, Cornwall, 126.
     |
  105|Bridge, High, Dorset, 139.
     |
   75|Bridge, Mary, Hants, 98.
     |
  212|Bridge, New, Devon, 122.
     |
   96|Bridge, New, Dorset, 89.
     |
  109|Bridge, New, Somerset, 201.
     |
  102|Bridge, New, 186.
     |
  145|=Bridgewater=, Somerset, 192. A borough and market town, seated on
     |the river Parret, over which is a stone bridge; here the tide
     |rises at high water 6 fathoms, and sometimes flows in with such
     |impetuosity, that it rises near two fathoms deep at a time; which
     |often occasions considerable damage to the shipping, driving them
     |foul of each other, and oversetting the small craft. It is termed
     |the _boar_, and is frequent in the rivers of the channel,
     |particularly the Severn.
     |
     |The church is a handsome spacious structure, containing a fine
     |altar piece of our Saviour taken from the Cross, by Guido, and the
     |spire is the loftiest in the county. Near the church is a handsome
     |free school, built of stone; the town hall is a large building,
     |beneath which is a cistern, whence the inhabitants are supplied
     |with water.
     |
     |It was first incorporated as a borough by King John, who built a
     |castle here, and it was one of the first towns seized by the
     |barons in the reign of Henry the Third, being then considered of
     |great importance. The Duke of Monmouth was here proclaimed king,
     |and lodged sometime in the castle; but being betrayed by Lord
     |Gray, and his army consisting chiefly of raw countrymen, he was
     |defeated by the royal army, on a moor near Weston, 3 miles
     |distant; when 1000 were killed, and 1500 taken prisoners; and here
     |Judge Jefferies and Colonel Kirk had most of the survivors
     |executed.
     |
     |The houses in general are irregular, but the streets are wide, and
     |well paved. It sends two members to parliament, and has a market
     |on Tuesday and Saturday; at the former, cattle of all kind are
     |sold, and cheese in great quantities, and provisions of all sorts,
     |are plentiful. The midsummer county sessions are held here, and
     |the assizes every other year. Through the convenience of its
     |navigation it has also a very good coasting-trade, and a number of
     |coal ships are constantly employed. Bridgewater contains 916
     |houses, and 4911 inhabitants.
     |
  134|=Bridport=, Dorset, 111. A borough and market town, situated
     |between two branches of the river Brit, which joins below the
     |town, and falls into the sea, having once had a convenient
     |harbour, but which now is choaked up with sand. The town consists
     |of three good spacious streets, some of the houses being built of
     |stone, and some of brick. The East, West, and South streets, are
     |in the form of a T, having several back lanes or passages. In the
     |centre of the town has been erected a very handsome market house.
     |It is a very ancient corporation, and has sent members to
     |parliament ever since the 23d of Edward the First.
     |
     |The church, dedicated to St. Mary, is a large neat building, near
     |the centre of the town, in the form of a cross, with a tower in
     |the middle, 72 feet high. Its chief manufacture is in twine,
     |sail-cloth, and hats. Bridport contains 520 houses, and 3567
     |inhabitants, and has two market days, Wednesday and Saturday, both
     |of which are well supplied with fresh meat.
     |
   54|=Brighton=, or =Brighthelmstone=, Sussex, 51, 60, 219. A sea-port
     |and market town of some antiquity. It was once fortified, and some
     |traces of the walls are still left. Queen Elizabeth erected here
     |four gates. A flint wall, three feet thick towards the sea, and a
     |block house, had been built before in the reign of Henry the
     |Eighth. The town was of little or no consequence, being chiefly
     |inhabited by fishermen, and has only risen to its present state,
     |as a fashionable resort for sea-bathing, within these few years;
     |being now enlarged with many new streets, elegant buildings, &c.
     |The houses of the new streets, particularly the Steyne and the
     |Crescent, are elegantly built, and chiefly lodging houses.
     |North-street, furnishes handsome shops of every description, and
     |there is a neat little theatre. There are also two elegant
     |assembly rooms, with suits of card, tea, and supper rooms; those
     |at the Castle Tavern are open every night during the season, as
     |are also those at the Old Ship, which are little inferior.
     |
     |The Steyne is a fine lawn, on the eastern part of the town, which
     |is the general parade for the company. On the Steyne are the North
     |and South Parades, Blue and Buff Parade, Steyne-place, or South
     |and Steyne Row; besides this, there are two other Steynes, but
     |both inferior to the preceding. One is called the New Steyne, and
     |is situated in the east of the town leading to Rottingdean; the
     |other, the North Steyne, but more commonly the _Level_, both
     |having many handsome buildings. The promenade commences after the
     |heat of the day, and continues till dark; a choice band of music
     |playing all the while. The Prince Regent has an elegant mansion
     |here, called the Pavilion. (_see Index of Seats._)
     |
     |There are two public libraries on the Steyne, furnished with all
     |the newspapers, periodical publications, &c. This is the morning
     |lounge for every vehicle of news There are also a suite of hot,
     |cold, vapour and salt-water baths, for those who may not, or do
     |not choose to plunge into the ocean. There are also air-pump water
     |baths, for the relief of persons afflicted with the gout, or
     |violent scorbutic affections; the ingenious invention of Mr.
     |Nathan Smith, of Artillery-place. The baths are situated near the
     |Steyne, and were first erected in 1789. On one side of a handsome
     |vestibule are six cold-baths, and on the other side, the hot
     |baths.
     |
     |The streets nearly intersect each other at right angles, and are
     |very clean and neat. Among the recent improvements, the handsome
     |row of uniform houses, called Dorset Garden, deserves to be
     |noticed; in front, is an extensive well planned garden, while two
     |octagon temples ornament the pleasure ground. The road is composed
     |of chalk and sea beach, with a spacious foot pavement of bricks on
     |each side, which is entirely dry, almost immediately after the
     |most heavy rains. The town is also well lighted, and from its
     |vicinity to the metropolis, and accommodation of every kind, it
     |may justly rank as the first watering place in the kingdom.
     |
     |The church stands on a hill near the town, and has a square tower,
     |which may be seen a considerable distance at sea, having the
     |figure of a dolphin for a vane. From its increase of population, a
     |=Chapel Royal= has been erected within these few years, which is
     |sufficiently spacious to contain 1000 persons.
     |
     |About half a mile west of the church is a chalybeate spring, much
     |frequented; it has been found serviceable in several cases of
     |debility, indigestion, &c. The proprietors have erected a neat
     |lodge over the spring, and near it a very handsome mansion.
     |
     |Although the town itself is not observable, it lying so low that
     |in several bombardments by the enemy, the balls have gone over it
     |without doing any damage, it is now flanked with some strong
     |batteries.
     |
     |The town is not incorporated, but an act was passed about 30 years
     |ago, vesting a power in 36 inhabitants, as commissioners, to erect
     |a market, pave, light, and cleanse the streets, and to execute all
     |necessary matters for the good order of the place. Brighton
     |contains 1282 houses, and 7339 inhabitants.
     |
     |At this place Charles the Second embarked for France, in 1651,
     |after the battle of Worcester.
     |
     |The only manufacture here, (if it may be termed one) is the making
     |of part of the nets for the use of the fishery, the materials
     |coming from Bridport. The fishery employs about 100 boats,
     |carrying some three, four, and five men each. The mackarel season
     |commences in April, and that for herrings in October. Independent
     |of these almost every kind of fish are also found in plenty, and
     |to be purchased every day. To the fishery, and the numerous
     |visitants during the bathing season, the inhabitants look up for
     |support. But what has particularly enlivened the town of late
     |years, during the war, has been the encampment of several
     |regiments of regulars and militia, on the levels to the west of
     |the town, between Brighton and Hove; and it is now much benefited
     |by the numerous travellers to France, embarking from hence to
     |Dieppe, and also from its being the favourite country residence of
     |the Prince Regent. The principal market day is on Thursday; but it
     |is open every day except Sunday, and well stored with every kind
     |of provision.
     |
     |The mutton of this place, being chiefly fed on the South Downs, is
     |particularly admired for its fine flavour. The Downs afford most
     |delightful rides, and pleasing land and sea views.
     |
     |The race-ground, which is fenced in, and properly attended to, is
     |justly admired. The races, which last four or five days, are
     |usually the first week in August, when it is esteemed the fullest
     |part of the season.
     |
   57|Brighton Race Ground, Sussex, 60.
     |
  129|Brimpit, Somerset, 190.
     |
  239|Brin, Cornwall, 156.
     |
  117|Brislington, Somerset, 203. A parish containing 136 houses, and
     |776 inhabitants.
     |
  119|BRISTOL, 203. This city may justly rank as the second in the
     |British dominions for trade, wealth, and population, though much
     |of its commerce with the West Indies and America have passed to
     |Liverpool. It properly lies in two counties, Somerset and
     |Gloucester, but in the reign of Edward the Third it was erected
     |into a county of itself.
     |
     |This metropolis of the west of England gradually rose to eminence
     |in the Anglo Saxon period, but its origin is uncertain. It
     |contains 10,403 houses, and 63,645 inhabitants, and is situated on
     |the rivers Avon and Frome. The bridge over the former was first
     |built above 500 years ago, and rebuilt in 1768. It consists of
     |three wide and lofty arches, with a neat stone ballustrade. The
     |river here is deep and very rapid, and flows to the height of 40
     |feet, so as to bring a vessel of 1000 tons up to the bridge.
     |
     |The internal streets of this city are high and irregular, with
     |projecting buildings, mostly built of wood and plaster, which
     |render it close; but many of the streets have been lately much
     |widened, particularly the avenues to the bridges. The suburbs and
     |external parts of the city are elegant and spacious buildings,
     |principally inhabited by gentry, merchants, and retired tradesmen,
     |or let as lodging-houses. The sides of the streets have smooth
     |pavements, and the whole is well lighted. It is supplied with
     |excellent water, both from pumps and conduits; that in Temple
     |Street has a noble statue upon it, representing Neptune. The
     |common sewers which run through the streets, render the whole city
     |remarkably clean. Carts are not admitted in the streets, for fear
     |of damaging the arches of the vaults and gutters that are made
     |under ground, for conveying the soil into the rivers; on this
     |account every thing is conveyed by sledges, to the no small danger
     |of the foot passengers.
     |
     |In King Street there is a very elegant and convenient theatre, and
     |the city library is a handsome stone building, with literary
     |emblems in front, which contains a very good collection of books,
     |and a clergyman is always appointed the librarian.
     |
     |Above the river, Redcliff Parade is a handsome range of houses,
     |whence is a beautiful prospect of the surrounding country.
     |
     |Over the river Frome is a draw-bridge, which has also two arches
     |of stone, and an octagon building at each end.
     |
     |The quay is above a mile in length, reaching from St. Giles’s to
     |Bristol Bridge, and is all the way embanked by a firm wall, coped
     |with hewn stone; the whole is not impeded by the buildings, which
     |lie a considerable way back, so that it is one continued quay,
     |although under different names; that from Bristol Bridge to the
     |bend of the river opposite Redcliff Parade, is called _The Back_,
     |and from thence downwards is called _The Grove_. Here is a dock
     |which will contain 10 sail of large vessels, and further on there
     |is another, where a building is erected on 14 pillars of cast
     |iron, being a crane, a curious piece of mechanism for loading and
     |unloading ships; from which, to the mouth of the river Frome, the
     |quay is called _The Gibb_.
     |
     |The Avon being joined by the Frome, passes on by the Hot-well
     |through the rocks of St. Vincent, in a winding course of about
     |eight miles, and discharges itself into the Bristol Channel; on
     |the banks are several dock yards, and the merchants’ floating dock
     |is extremely large.
     |
     |The cathedral church, dedicated to the Holy Trinity, was founded
     |in the reign of King Stephen, in 1140; it is 175 feet long; the
     |tower is 130 feet high, square, and ornamented with four
     |pinnacles: the church, though not large, has many gothic beauties
     |within, and a good organ; it is adorned with painted windows, and
     |several handsome monuments, particularly that of Mrs. Draper, the
     |celebrated Eliza of Sterne. Behind the church is a cloister, in
     |which are the entrances to the library and bishop’s palace. To the
     |west of the church is a most beautiful gothic gateway, ornamented
     |with statues.
     |
     |Bristol contains 17 parish churches, and five chapels. The church
     |of St. Mark, opposite the cathedral, was formerly collegiate: now
     |it is the mayor’s chapel. All the churches are neat, beautifully
     |decorated, and most of them have many handsome monuments: that of
     |St. Mary’s, Redcliff, is one of the finest in the kingdom,
     |containing two beautiful monumental statues of its founder,
     |William Canninge, who had been five times mayor of the city; in
     |one appearing habited as a magistrate, and in the other as a
     |priest, he having in his latter days taken holy orders: there is
     |also another of Sir William Penn, father of the famous Quaker.
     |Here are also many hospitals and charitable institutions.
     |
     |On College Green is a stately high cross, with the statues of
     |several kings round it.
     |
     |There are 13 city companies, several of whom have elegant halls,
     |particularly the Merchant’s Hall, in Princes Street, a capacious
     |stone structure, enclosed by an iron pallisade, with a very
     |curious front. The Cooper’s Hall, in King Street, has a superb
     |front, with four Corinthian columns. There are also several
     |handsome squares: Queen Square has a spacious walk, shaded with
     |trees; in the centre is a fine equestrian statue of William the
     |Third, by Rysbrack.
     |
     |The government of the city is administered by a mayor, 12
     |aldermen, all justices of the peace, two sheriffs, 28 common
     |council, town clerk, and deputy town clerk, chamberlain,
     |vice-chamberlain, under-sheriff, &c. besides a city marshal, and
     |other inferior officers.
     |
     |A mile below the city, close by the river, is the Hot-well, the
     |waters of which are reckoned specific for the diabetes,
     |phthisical, scorbutic, and inflammatory disorders. It is a great
     |resort for invalids during the summer, for whose accommodation and
     |entertainment there are a pump-room, ball-room, coffee-house,
     |taverns, and elegant lodging-houses, both below, on a level with
     |the well, and above, in the delightful village of Clifton,
     |situated on the brow of a hill, the prospect from which is
     |beautifully romantic, and from the purity of its air and its
     |situation, it has generally been termed the Montpelier of England.
     |
     |Clifton is at all times preferable to any place of residence in or
     |about Bristol; for it is not only convenient for the wells, but is
     |so happily situated with respect to Durdham Downs, that, without
     |fatigue, valetudinarians are in a few minutes conveyed to them,
     |and thereby enjoy an advantage equal, if not superior in effect,
     |to that of the waters. Indeed this the physicians themselves
     |acknowledge, and therefore the sick drive hither for health, and
     |the unailing for amusement.
     |
     |The Bristol and Matlock waters are of the same quality, their
     |mineral contents being _chalk_, _lapis calcareous_, and
     |_calaminaris_, without any impregnation of iron. In the rocks
     |above the well are found beautiful crystals; and the rivers afford
     |salmon, eels, plaice, flounders, dabs, and vast quantities of
     |elvers, and higher up trout, roach, and dace.
     |
     |In the markets of Bristol there is an astonishing plenty and
     |variety of provisions, fruit, and vegetables. The city gives the
     |title of Earl to the family of Hervey, and here the famous Thomas
     |Chatterton was born, his father being sexton of St. Mary’s
     |Redcliff.
     |
     |In 1777, an incendiary, called Jack the Painter, set fire to
     |different parts of this city, and occasioned considerable damage.
     |
     |Britford, Wilts, 209. A parish containing 125 houses, and 675
     |inhabitants.
     |
     |Britford Bridge, Wilts, 209.
     |
    4|Brixton Causeway, Surrey, 52.
     |
    5|Brixton Hill, Surrey, 52.
     |
     |Broadbridge Mill, Sussex, 215.
     |
    9|Broad Green, Surrey, 53.
     |
  122|Broadleaze, Somerset, 167.
     |
   55|Broadwater, Sussex, 67, 218. A parish containing 183 houses, and
     |1018 inhabitants.
     |
  125|Broadway, Dorset, 171. A parish containing 42 houses, and 210
     |inhabitants.
     |
  134|Broadway, Somerset, 169. A hamlet containing 57 houses, and 328
     |inhabitants.
     |
  225|Brocka Barrow, Cornwall, 154.
     |
   87|Brockenhurst, Hants, 93. This hamlet contains 127 houses and 632
     |inhabitants, and is one of those sequestered retreats where the
     |lovers of rural life would find their highest gratification. It
     |lies at an agreeable distance both from Lymington and Southampton,
     |and the environs are studded with seats, among which that
     |belonging to Edward Moraunt, Esq. occupies one of the most
     |delightful and select situations in the whole forest.
     |
   10|=Bromley=, Kent, 16. A market town and parish, seated on the river
     |Ravensbourne. Near the town is a palace of the Bishops of
     |Rochester, where there is a mineral spring, of similar quality to
     |that at Tunbridge; and the manor of this place was granted to the
     |bishop by king Edgar, in the year 700. The church is a very old
     |structure. There is still standing a college, erected by Bishop
     |Warner in the reign of Charles the Second, for 20 poor clergymen’s
     |widows, with an allowance of £20, together with £50 per annum to
     |the chaplain. This was the first endowment of the kind established
     |in England. The allowance has since been augmented to £30 per
     |annum, and £60 to the chaplain, through the munificence of the
     |Rev. Mr. Hetherington and Bishop Pearce, the former of whom left
     |£2000, and the latter £5000. Bromley contains 419 houses, and 2965
     |inhabitants; and has a market on Thursday.
     |
   12|Bromley Common, Kent, 16.
     |
    9|Bromley Hill, Kent, 16.
     |
   38|Brook Green, Surrey, 33.
     |
   96|Brook Water, Wilts, 138.
     |
     |Broomfield, Hants, 212.
     |
     |Broomfield, Wilts, 205.
     |
  109|Bruton, Somerset, 173. A market town and parish, deriving its name
     |from its situation on the river Brue, over which it has a stone
     |bridge. It is a well-built town, composed chiefly of three
     |streets, at the meeting of which is a very convenient market
     |place, built by a subscription of the farmers. The church is a
     |handsome building, and has two quadrangular towers, one at the
     |west, and the other at the north aisle. The Quarter Sessions for
     |the eastern division of the county is sometimes held here, and it
     |has a small manufacture of stockings, and inferior kinds of
     |woollen goods. It contains 317 houses, and 1631 inhabitants, and
     |has a market on Saturday.
     |
  123|Brympton, Somerset, 141. A parish containing 21 houses, and 133
     |inhabitants.
     |
  231|Buckapit, Cornwall, 124.
     |
  230|Buckaton, Cornwall, 124.
     |
  194|Buckfastleigh, Devon, 119. A parish containing 260 houses, and
     |1525 inhabitants. The remains of a Cistercian monastery are here
     |visible.
     |
     |Buckingham, Sussex, 219.
     |
   70|Buckland, Kent, 10. A parish containing 71 houses, and 346
     |inhabitants.
     |
  138|Buckland St. Mary, Somerset, 169. A hamlet containing 81 houses,
     |and 418 inhabitants.
     |
     |Bull Moor, Wilts, 206.
     |
  111|Bullstake Hill, Somerset, 140.
     |
   86|Burcomb, Wilts, 136. A parish containing 54 houses, and 254
     |inhabitants.
     |
   22|Burfoot Bridge, Surrey, 63.
     |
     |Bursledon, Hants, 221. A small port, where vessels are employed in
     |the flour, timber, and hop trade; containing 73 houses, and 522
     |inhabitants.
     |
     |Bursledon Bridge, Hants, 221.
     |
   99|Burton, Wilts, 164.
     |
   56|Bury, Sussex, 43. A parish containing 62 houses, and 361
     |inhabitants.
     |
   57|Bury Hill, Sussex, 43.
     |
   60|Bury Hill Camp, Hants, 101.
     |
   15|Bury Mead, Middlesex, 174.
     |
   12|Butcher’s Grove, Middlesex, 174.
     |
   56|Butser Hill, Hants, 30. From the summit of this hill, on a clear
     |day, Salisbury Cathedral is visible at the distance of forty
     |miles.
     |
   50|Byworth Street, Sussex, 43.
     |
     |
     |C.
     |
  113|Cadbury Castle, or _Camalet_, Somerset, 166. The ruins of this
     |place proclaim it one of the most stupendous fortifications in the
     |kingdom. It is described to have been, in the year 1612, a hill of
     |a mile in compass at the top, having four trenches, and betwixt
     |every one an earthen wall, encircling an area within of about
     |twenty acres, full of ruins and relics of old buildings: great
     |number of Roman coins have been found here, and other works of
     |antiquity, among which a silver horse-shoe is mentioned by Stow. A
     |part of these ruins is denominated King Arthur’s Palace. The
     |rampart is made of large stones, covered with earth, with only one
     |entrance facing the east, guarded by several ditches. Various
     |opinions are entertained by different writers as to the origin of
     |this place; but the most probable conjecture appears to be that of
     |attributing it to the Romans.
     |
  112|Cadbury, North, Somerset, 166. A parish containing 173 houses, and
     |810 inhabitants.
     |
  113|Cadbury, South, Somerset, 166. A parish containing 37 houses, and
     |214 inhabitants.
     |
    8|Cadet Barracks, Kent, 1.
     |
  205|Cadleigh, Devon, 121. A parish containing 38 houses, and 226
     |inhabitants.
     |
   80|Cadnam, Hants, 87.
     |
   66|Cake Wood, Wilts, 182.
     |
   42|Calcot, Berks, 178.
     |
   42|Calcot Green, Berks, 178.
     |
  270|Calenick, Cornwall, 129.
     |
  254|Callerick, Cornwall, 158.
     |
   87|=Calne=, Wilts, 184. A borough and market town of considerable
     |antiquity, supposed to have risen out of the ruins of an old Roman
     |colony on the other side of the river Calne, near Studley, where
     |many Roman coins have been found. Here was one of the palaces of
     |the West Saxon kings; and it also had a castle, but there are now
     |no traces thereof left. The town is well built, and the church is
     |a large structure, with a handsome square tower.
     |
     |This town has of late years experienced many improvements, through
     |the patronage of the Marquis of Lansdown. It stands on the river
     |Marden, whence it has a good supply of water, and by the side of
     |which are many fulling and corn mills.
     |
     |Calne contains 775 houses, and 3767 inhabitants; its chief
     |manufactory is cloth; and it has a market on Tuesday.
     |
   89|Cain Hill, Wilts, 199.
     |
   71|Cambreach, Wilts, 182.
     |
  115|Camel Hill, Somerset, 166.
     |
  116|Camel West, Somerset, 166. A parish containing 38 houses, and 224
     |inhabitants.
     |
     |Cams, East, Hants, 222.
     |
  103|Canford Bottom, Dorset, 90.
     |
  101|Canford Bridge, Dorset, 90.
     |
  100|Cann, Dorset, 138. A parish containing 32 houses, and 203
     |inhabitants.
     |
   55|CANTERBURY, Kent, 8, 11. A city, and the metropolitan see of all
     |England. It is situated in a pleasant valley, between hills of a
     |moderate height and easy ascent, among which are several springs.
     |The river Stour passes here, and dividing into several small
     |streams, forms islands of various sizes, in one of which the
     |western part of the city stands.
     |
     |It was the _Durovernum_ of the Romans; and the Britons called it
     |_Caer Kent_, that is, the city of Kent. It is mentioned as a city
     |in Antonine’s Itinerary, and its ancient importance appears from
     |the strong military causeways leading to Dover and Lymme through
     |the city, as well as the many Roman vestiges and coins found in
     |and about the neighbourhood; and its archiepiscopal and
     |metropolitan dignity seems also to have been settled very early.
     |
     |This city was given entirely to the bishops by William Rufus; and
     |it was held in particular veneration after the murder of Becket,
     |in the reign of Henry the Second; to whose shrine, so great were
     |the offerings, that Erasmus says, the whole church and chapel in
     |which he was interred, glittered with jewels.
     |
     |The cathedral has been several times destroyed by fire: the
     |present structure was built about the year 1174; but not entirely
     |completed till the reign of Henry the Fifth: kings, princes,
     |cardinals and Bishops, are buried in it. During the great
     |rebellion it suffered much; Cromwell made a stable of it for his
     |dragoons; but after the restoration it was repaired. The body of
     |the church measures 178 feet from the western door to the choir
     |steps; and the breadth, including the aisles, 71 feet, and the
     |vaulted roof 80 feet. It was new paved with Portland stone, in
     |1788. The choir is the most spacious of any in the kingdom, being
     |180 feet in length from the western door to the altar. The altar
     |piece was designed by Sir James Burrough, master of Caius College,
     |Cambridge; and the great stained window is the most beautiful of
     |the kind in England. In 1784, an elegant organ was put up, built
     |in the Gothic style. Behind the altar is the beautiful chapel of
     |the Holy Trinity, in the middle of which stood the shrine of St.
     |Thomas à Becket; part of the flat is curiously inlaid with mosaic
     |work, and contains the episcopal chair, composed of three pieces
     |of grey marble. In the mint yard, within the precincts of this
     |church, is a public grammar school, founded by Henry the Eighth.
     |
     |Christ’s-church gate is an elegant structure, built in 1517. From
     |this gate you have a view of Oxford steeple, a tower 130 feet
     |high, with four handsome pinnacles; and that stately tower called
     |Bell Harry steeple, being 235 feet high; on its top hangs a small
     |bell, called _Bell Harry_, which is tolled every day for prayers:
     |but never rung, except on the death of a King, Queen, or
     |Archbishop.
     |
     |The four principal streets are disposed in the form of a Cross,
     |and divided into six wards. It is called the city, and county of
     |the city of Canterbury, and is governed by a mayor, recorder, 12
     |aldermen, 24 common councilmen, with a sheriff and coroner, and 4
     |serjeants at mace. It has sent members to parliament ever since
     |the reign of Edward the First. Great improvements have been made
     |here lately; the streets, which were formerly paved with flints,
     |are now smooth pavements; the old signs and projecting buildings
     |are removed, the whole is well lighted with lamps, and a regular
     |watch set at 10 o’clock.
     |
     |A slip of land, called _Dungehill_, of about six acres, having an
     |artificial mount, is now converted into the City Mall; the sides
     |are adorned with spiral walks to the top, the old towers with
     |shrubberies, and the old ramparts are also converted into a
     |beautiful terrace. The Guildhall, in High Street, is a handsome
     |and lofty building, adorned with the portraits of the City
     |benefactors. Over the Canterbury bank are some large and elegant
     |assembly rooms. Its manufactures are of worsted, silk, and cotton;
     |the former furnishes employment for several hundred persons, in
     |the fabrication of what is called Canterbury muslins. The city is
     |surrounded on all sides with extensive hop grounds, contains 16
     |parishes, 2018 houses, and 10,498 inhabitants, and is famed for
     |its excellent brawn.
     |
     |The Archbishop of Canterbury is primate and metropolitan of all
     |England, and is the first peer in the realm; and wherever the
     |court may be, the King and Queen are his proper domestic
     |parishioners.
     |
     |To the cathedral belongs 1 archbishop, 1 dean, 1 chancellor, 1
     |archdeacon, 12 prebends, 6 preachers, 6 minor canons, 6
     |substitutes, 12 lay clerks, 10 choristers, 2 masters, 50 scholars,
     |and 12 almsmen.
     |
   29|Capel, Surrey, 64. A parish containing 99 houses, and 675
     |inhabitants. A singular phenomenon is recorded to have happened
     |here in the reign of Queen Elizabeth: part of a hill was divided
     |from the other part, and removed to some distance.
     |
   79|Carmor Common, Hants, 91.
     |
  223|Carneglos, Cornwall, 154.
     |
  112|Carnicot, Somerset, 188.
     |
  233|Cartuther, Cornwall, 124.
     |
  254|Carvath, Cornwall, 127.
     |
  261|Carvoza, Cornwall, 128.
     |
  260|Castle, Cornwall, 128.
     |
  100|Castle, Wilts, 164.
     |
  241|Castle Down, Cornwall, 156.
     |
  115|Castleton, Dorset, 140. (_see Sherborne_)
     |
     |Catersfield, Hants, 222.
     |
  139|Catcott, Somerset, 191. A hamlet containing 66 houses, and 391
     |inhabitants.
     |
   30|Catherine Hill, Surrey, 27.
     |
     |Catwater, Devon, 122. (_See Plymouth._)
     |
  102|Causeway, Dorset, 139.
     |
   98|Chaddenwych Barn, Wilts, 164.
     |
  130|Chalice Hill, Somerset, 190.
     |
   23|Chalk, Kent, 4. A parish containing 62 houses, and 322
     |inhabitants.
     |
   24|Chalk Church, Kent, 4.
     |
   39|Chalkwell, Kent, 6.
     |
   69|Chandler’s Ford Bridge, Hants, 78.
     |
  113|Chapel Bridge, Somerset, 166.
     |
   44|Chapel, North, Sussex, 38. A parish containing 93 houses, and 621
     |inhabitants.
     |
  100|Chapel Plaste, Wilts, 200.
     |
     |Chapmanslade Cross Roads, Wilts, 205.
     |
  138|=Chard=, Somerset, 143, 145. A market town and parish. The town
     |consists chiefly of two streets, intersecting each other, composed
     |of good commodious houses. The church is a low building,
     |possessing nothing remarkable either in internal or external
     |decorations. At the angle where the two streets meet, stands an
     |ancient Gothic building, formerly a chapel, but now used as a town
     |hall.
     |
     |Chard contains 534 houses, and 2784 inhabitants. Several streams
     |run through the town, and keep it clean. The assizes were held
     |here formerly, and the town sent members to parliament; but it
     |lost the privilege by negligence. At the west end of the town
     |rises a very fine spring, conveyed by leaden pipes to four
     |conduits, which supply the inhabitants with water. The market is
     |held on Monday, and is abundantly supplied with corn.
     |
  136|Chard Common, Somerset, 143.
     |
  136|Chard Elm, Somerset, 143.
     |
  141|Chard, South, Somerset, 144.
     |
  253|Charlstown, Cornwall, 127.
     |
  107|Charlton Down, Dorset, 107.
     |
  141|Charmouth, Dorset, 112. This village derives its name from its
     |situation near the mouth of the river Char. It stands at the foot
     |of an amazing hill, no less than 1000 feet high, opposite to which
     |is another 970 feet high. Here the Danes twice defeated the
     |English; but, in 833, they were in turn completely routed, with
     |the loss of nearly their whole fleet, consisting of 35 sail. It
     |contains 64 houses, and 369 inhabitants.
     |
     |Charterhouse Hinton, Somerset, 204.
     |
   30|=Chatham=, Kent, 4. This town is situated by the river Medway, and
     |is joined to Rochester, to which it is a suburb. It was built by
     |King Charles the Second after the Dutch war; but the dock was
     |begun by Queen Elizabeth, and has been so much improved, that it
     |is now the first arsenal in the world. The houses of the various
     |officers are well built, and some of them even stately. The
     |dock-yard, including the ordnance wharf, is about a mile in
     |length, and some of the store rooms are near 700 feet long.
     |Although the stores of the navy are so immense in these magazines,
     |every thing is arranged in the greatest order. Here are upwards of
     |20 smiths’ forges constantly at work, and some of the anchors that
     |are made weigh near five tons. The new rope-house is 1140 feet in
     |length, in which cables are made 120 fathoms long, and 22 inches
     |round. In the yard are four docks for repairing, and six slips for
     |building, new ships. The ordnance wharf, which adjoins hereto, was
     |the original dock, where the guns belonging to each ship are now
     |arranged in tiers, with the names of the vessels they belonged to
     |marked above them.
     |
     |In 1558 the _Chest of Chatham_ was instituted by the seamen in the
     |service of Queen Elizabeth, each paying a portion of his pay for
     |the relief of the sufferers in the defeat of the Spanish Armada.
     |There is also here an hospital for the relief of aged mariners or
     |shipwrights.
     |
     |At the entrance of the town stands the victualling office, whence
     |his Majesty’s ships at Chatham and Sheerness are supplied with
     |provisions. Near it stands the chapel of ease to the parish
     |church, it is a circular building, the walls of which are three
     |feet thick, and appears of great antiquity, probably of Norman
     |origin by the architecture. This chapel is 74 feet long and 20
     |wide, the west end and steeple having been added in 1743.
     |
     |Chatham is defended by the castles of Upnor and Gillingham; the
     |first is almost opposite the dock on the west side of the river.
     |Gillingham Castle is a very strong fortification, and has a
     |complete command of the river.
     |
     |The church stands on a hill adjoining the ordnance office; it
     |contains several elegant marble monuments, and the ordnance office
     |has granted a piece of ground, a little distance therefrom, as a
     |burial ground, where a ship is used as a church for the sailors.
     |
     |In 1667 the Dutch fleet proceeded up the Medway, took Sheerness,
     |and did considerable damage to Chatham.
     |
     |The population of Chatham has of late years considerably
     |increased; it contains 1715 houses, and 10,505 inhabitants,
     |exclusive of Gillingham, which contains 715 houses, and 4135
     |inhabitants: and it has a market on Saturday.
     |
   48|Chawton, Hants, 82, 95. This parish contains 64 houses, and 372
     |inhabitants.
     |
   84|Cherhill, Wilts, 184. A hamlet in the parish of Calne, containing
     |60 houses, and 304 inhabitants.
     |
  183|Cheriton Cross, Devon, 148.
     |
   61|CHICHESTER, Sussex, 36, 40, 41, 216. A city and county of itself;
     |containing nine parishes, 821 houses, and 4744 inhabitants. It is
     |situated in a pleasant vale on the little river Lavant, which
     |washes it on all sides, except the north, and is said to have been
     |built by _Cissa_, the second king of the South Saxons, and named
     |_Cissan Caester_. It consists of four principal streets, in the
     |form of a cross, is surrounded with a stone wall, and had formerly
     |four gates: the streets are broad, handsome, and well paved, and
     |there are six parish churches within the walls. This city sends
     |two members to parliament, and is governed by a mayor, recorder,
     |and 38 common councilmen, 4 justices of the peace being chosen out
     |of the aldermen. An ancient nunnery founded here, is now converted
     |into an hospital which has a very neat chapel. The Guildhall,
     |situated in an obscure part of the city, is a spacious ancient
     |building, and the council chamber, which is over the market house,
     |supported by pillars, is both neat and elegant, adjoining to which
     |is a subscription assembly room, and there is a small theatre,
     |situated at the bottom of South-street.
     |
     |The bishop’s palace, erected in 1727, has very commodious and well
     |laid-out grounds. The cathedral, which is built in the form of a
     |cross, on the site of St. Peter’s the Great, and dedicated to the
     |Holy Trinity, is an elegant Gothic structure; the spire nearly 300
     |feet high. The choir of late has been neatly repaired, and has a
     |well-furnished library. In the south aisle is painted the history
     |of its foundation, and under it are the portraits of our kings,
     |from William the Conqueror to Edward the Sixth, continued in the
     |chapter house and library, to George the Second: on the east side
     |are the bishops. The see was translated here from Selsea, in the
     |reign of William the Conqueror. In a nich, near the east door of
     |St. Peter’s the Great, which stands within the cathedral, is a
     |statue of bishop Seiffrid, who built the church in 1199, together
     |with the palace, cloisters, &c.
     |
     |In the centre of the town stands a neat cross, of an octagonal
     |form, supported on 8 arches. Adjoining the fish shambles, in the
     |South-street, is a large reservoir and conduit of excellent water,
     |with the figure of an ancient Druid above.
     |
     |In 1727, a Roman pavement was discovered here, and on the _brill_,
     |near the city, is a Roman camp of an oblong square, supposed to
     |have been raised by Vespasian; and from the soil being a hard
     |gravel, must have been a work of great labour. There are vestiges
     |of another about a mile and a half west, called Gonshill.
     |
     |The inconvenient distance of the town from the sea, has been
     |partly remedied by a canal to Brocklesham bay. The haven affords
     |excellent lobsters, and every other Wednesday there is here one of
     |the largest markets for sheep and black cattle in the county,
     |which not only supplies the city, but sends vast quantities to
     |Portsmouth and London.
     |
   94|Chicklade, Wilts, 163. A parish containing 25 houses, and 150
     |inhabitants.
     |
   93|Chicklade Bottom, Wilts, 163.
     |
   40|Chidingfold, Surrey, 37. A parish containing 162 houses, and 848
     |inhabitants.
     |
  137|Chidiock, Dorset, 112. A township and chapelry, containing 107
     |houses, and 578 inhabitants.
     |
  117|Chilcompton, Somerset, 188. A parish containing 74 houses, and 348
     |inhabitants.
     |
     |Chilhampton, Wilts, 208.
     |
  134|Chillington Down, Somerset, 143.
     |
  162|Chilson, Somerset, 194.
     |
  162|Chilson Heathfield, Somerset, 194.
     |
   66|Chilton, Berks, 181. A parish containing 48 houses, and 244
     |inhabitants. This place gave birth to the Lord Chief Justice
     |Crook.
     |
  140|Chilton, Somerset, 191. A parish containing 53 houses, and 310
     |inhabitants.
     |
   88|Chilvester Hill, Wilts, 185.
     |
     |Chilworth, Hants, 211. A parish containing 18 houses, and 132
     |inhabitants.
     |
     |Chilworth Common, Hants, 211.
     |
  125|Chinnock, East, Somerset, 142. A parish containing 60 houses, and
     |505 inhabitants. This place is noted for a brackish spring,
     |although 20 miles from the sea.
     |
  125|Chinnock Hutts, Somerset, 142.
     |
   93|=Chippenham=, Wilts, 185. A borough and market town, situated on
     |the river Avon, over which it has a handsome bridge of 16 arches,
     |and is mentioned to have been of considerable strength and
     |importance in the time of Alfred the Great. The church is a
     |venerable Gothic structure, supposed to have been built by the
     |Hungerford family, whose arms are still to be seen upon its walls.
     |The houses in general are neat and well built. It has a
     |considerable manufacture of superfine woollen cloth; sends two
     |members to parliament, and contains 667 houses, and 3366
     |inhabitants. The market on Saturday is well supplied with all
     |kinds of provision, and great quantities of corn.
     |
   74|Cholderton, Wilts, 160. A parish containing 35 houses, and 127
     |inhabitants.
     |
   69|Cholderton, East, Hants, 159.
     |
  100|=Christchurch=, Hants, 94. A borough and market town, pleasantly
     |situated at the conflux of the rivers Avon and Stour, which, about
     |a mile and a half distant, falls into the sea at Christchurch bay.
     |It derives its name from a collegiate church built here by the
     |West Saxons, and was formerly called Christchurch Twynham, and had
     |also a castle.
     |
     |The river Avon was made navigable from Salisbury in 1680, and is
     |famous for its salmon fishery. A little to the east is Hordell
     |Cliff, which runs for a mile along the shore, and is 150 feet
     |above the level of the sea. Christchurch sends two members to
     |parliament, contains 290 houses, and 1410 inhabitants, having a
     |considerable trade in knit silk stockings and watch chains. Market
     |on Monday.
     |
  181|=Chudleigh=, Devon, 118. A market town and parish, situated near
     |the river Teign, having a considerable woollen manufactory. Here
     |was formerly a Benedictine monastery, and a palace of the bishop
     |of Exeter. It gives title of baron to the Clifford family;
     |contains 360 houses, and 1786 inhabitants, and has a market on
     |Saturday.
     |
  183|Chudleigh Bridge, Devon, 118.
     |
   22|Cippenham Court, Bucks, 175.
     |
   96|City, The, Wilts, 200.
     |
    3|Clapham, Surrey, 45. This village consists chiefly of one long
     |street, and a number of handsome houses surrounding a common,
     |which is so well planted with various trees, that it has now the
     |appearance of a park: though, formerly, it was little better than
     |a morass. This improvement was chiefly effected by a subscription
     |of the inhabitants. Near the road to Wandsworth is a reservoir of
     |fine water, which supplies the parish. On the north-east corner of
     |the common, a new church was erected in 1776, at the expence of
     |£ll,000; but it has no cemetery. On the site of the old church a
     |new chapel has been lately erected, in which the funeral service
     |is performed when there are any interments. Clapham contains 480
     |houses, and 3864 inhabitants.
     |
    3|Clapham Common, Surrey, 45, (_See Clapham._)
     |
     |Clapham Common, Sussex, 218.
     |
   30|Clarks Green, Surrey, 64.
     |
   76|Clatford, Wilts, 183. A hamlet containing 26 houses, and 122
     |inhabitants.
     |
     |Clay Street, Wilts, 210.
     |
   47|Clayton, Sussex, 51. A parish containing 55 houses, and 337
     |inhabitants.
     |
   50|Clerken Green, Hants, 99.
     |
  232|Clicker, Lower, Cornwall, 124.
     |
  231|Clicker Tor, Cornwall, 124.
     |
   51|Cliff, Sussex, 59. (_See Lewes._)
     |
  120|Clifton, Gloucester, 203. (_See Bristol._)
     |
  256|Clisey Hill, Cornwall, 127.
     |
  176|Clopton Bridge, Devon, 117.
     |
   77|Clorus’s Camp, Wilts, 103, 135. Clorus’s Camp, or _Figbury Ring_,
     |is situated on a commanding eminence. This entrenchment is of a
     |circular form, and comprehends an area of nearly fifteen acres
     |within the outer vallum, which is forty-six feet in height, and
     |1078 yards in circumference. The principal entrance faces the
     |east, and is defended by two outworks; there are also two other
     |openings, one towards the south, and the other towards the west,
     |and a deep ditch, excavated within the area, apparently the
     |boundary of a lesser camp.
     |
  210|Coadron, Devon, 152.
     |
  102|Coal Cot, Wilts, 172.
     |
     |Coates, Sussex, 218. A parish containing only 6 houses, and 30
     |inhabitants.
     |
  143|Coaxdon Common, Dorset, 144.
     |
  144|Coaxdon Mill, Dorset, 144.
     |
  144|Coaxdon, Lower, Dorset, 144.
     |
   19|Cobham Street, Surrey, 25. A parish pleasantly situated by the
     |river Mole, over which are two neat brick bridges. It contains 208
     |houses, and 1200 inhabitants. Here are two medicinal springs,
     |Cobham Wells, and the Spa; formerly much noted, but now in no
     |repute. On the banks of the Mole there are several charming
     |villas, and the river affords plenty of pike, trout, perch, eels,
     |&c.
     |
  139|Cock Hill, Somerset, 191.
     |
   52|Cocking, Sussex, 35. A parish containing 49 houses, and 300
     |inhabitants.
     |
   51|Cocking Common, Sussex, 35.
     |
     |Codford, St. Mary, Wilts, 207. A parish containing 31 houses, and
     |187 inhabitants.
     |
     |Codford, St. Peter, Wilts, 207. A parish containing 71 houses, and
     |399 inhabitants.
     |
  107|Cogley Wood, Somerset, 173.
     |
  124|Coker Hill, Somerset, 142.
     |
  123|Coker, West, Somerset, 142. A parish containing 128 houses, and
     |758 inhabitants.
     |
  238|Coldrigen, Cornwall, 156.
     |
  176|=Collumpton=, Devon, 196. A market town, situated on the river
     |Culm, which joins the Ex two miles above Exeter, and over which it
     |has a bridge. Its principal trade is in woollen cloth, serges, and
     |corduroys. It contains 615 houses, 3138 inhabitants, and has a
     |market on Saturday. The church is a large and curious structure in
     |the Gothic style; and formerly contained the figure of St. Columb,
     |which was much resorted to by pilgrims: the gilded roof of the
     |church is still preserved.
     |
  249|Colly Green, Cornwall, 126.
     |
   17|=Colnbrook=, 174. A market town situated on the river Coln; part
     |of it is in Middlesex, and part in Bucks. It consists chiefly of
     |one street, in the middle of which stands the chapel of ease, with
     |a market house under it, where a market is held on Thursday.
     |
   46|Colthook Common, Sussex, 38.
     |
  202|Combe, Devon, 151.
     |
  132|Combe, Somerset, 143.
     |
   84|Combe Bisset, Wilts, 104.
     |
   86|Combe Common, Wilts, 104.
     |
   98|Combe Cross, Wilts, 138.
     |
     |Comb Down, Somerset, 204.
     |
   10|Combe Wood, Surrey, 24.
     |
  143|Common, South, Dorset, 144.
     |
   65|Compton, Hants, 78. A parish containing 34 houses, and 225
     |inhabitants.
     |
   85|Compton Basset, Wilts, 184. A parish containing 71 houses, and 366
     |inhabitants.
     |
   90|Compton Chamberlain, Wilts, 137. A parish containing 48 houses,
     |and 283 inhabitants.
     |
  112|Compton Pauncefoot, Somerset, 165. A parish containing 30 houses,
     |and 207 inhabitants.
     |
     |Copperas Gap, Sussex, 219.
     |
   62|Corhampton, Hants, 96. This village contains 18 houses, and 130
     |inhabitants.
     |
   97|=Corsham=, Wilts, 186. A market town and parish, consisting
     |chiefly of one street; which is neat and well built, with a
     |handsome market house: the church is an ancient building. It is a
     |pleasant and healthy place, but standing on a dry stoney soil is
     |not fertile, and its chief support is the woollen manufacture. The
     |fields in the neighbourhood are in general inclosed with stone
     |walls instead of hedges. It contains 458 houses, and 2402
     |inhabitants. Market on Wednesday.
     |
   67|Cosham, Hants, 32, 214, 223.
     |
  141|Cossington, Somerset, 191. A parish containing 49 houses, and 237
     |inhabitants.
     |
  111|Coston, Somerset, 202.
     |
     |Cotley Hill, Wilts, 206.
     |
  108|Cottage Crescent, Somerset, 187.
     |
  230|Council Barrow, Cornwall, 155.
     |
   64|Court Week, Sussex, 44.
     |
   88|Cowden Down, Wilts, 105.
     |
  249|Cowland, Cornwall, 157.
     |
     |Cowsfield Green, Wilts, 210.
     |
  127|Coxley, Somerset, 190.
     |
  127|Coxley Pound, Somerset, 190.
     |
  212|Crab Tree, Devon, 122.
     |
  181|Crab Tree, Devon, 196.
     |
  113|Crackment Hill, Somerset, 140.
     |
  223|Crafthole, Cornwall, 123.
     |
  143|Crandon Bridge, Somerset, 192.
     |
   12|Cranford Bridge, Middlesex, 174.
     |
   30|Crawley, Sussex, 49. A parish containing 26 houses, and 210
     |inhabitants.
     |
   13|Crayford, Kent, 2. The name is derived from an ancient ford over
     |the river Cray, or Crouch; which, a little below this town, falls
     |into the Darent. Here are some considerable callico printing
     |grounds, and a manufactory for slitting iron and rolling it into
     |hoops. In this and the adjoining parishes are a number of deep
     |caverns, artificially cut out of the chalk pits; concerning the
     |origin of which various conjectures have been formed. The church
     |stands on an eminence, and is ornamented with a beautiful
     |altar-piece. The river produces excellent trout. It contains 187
     |houses, and 1210 inhabitants.
     |
  182|Crediton Lane End, Devon, 148.
     |
  130|=Crewkerne=, Somerset, 142. A market town and parish, lying in a
     |pleasant valley on the branches of the rivers Parret and Axe, and
     |consists of five principal streets; the church is an elegant
     |Gothic structure, richly ornamented. The market-house is roomy,
     |and stands in the centre of the town; it is well supplied on
     |Saturdays with provisions, corn, &c. It contains 489 houses, and
     |2576 inhabitants.
     |
   93|Cribbage Hutt, Wilts, 137.
     |
  136|Cricket Wood, Somerset, 143.
     |
  138|Crim Chard, Somerset, 145.
     |
     |Crockerhill, Sussex, 216.
     |
  184|Crockernwell, Devon, 148.
     |
   63|Croix, St., Hants, 78, 84.
     |
   77|Cromlech, The Devil’s Den, Wilts, 183. This ancient monument is
     |formed of two upright stones, supporting a vast flat one as an
     |impost; and, from the great breadth of the supporters, it has the
     |appearance of a cave. Near it are two other stones lying on the
     |ground, one in contact with the western upright. These monuments,
     |many of which are extant, both here and in Scotland and Ireland,
     |are generally supposed to be of Druidical origin.
     |
     |Crooks Gate, Hants, 213.
     |
   69|Cross Ford, Wilts, 182.
     |
  102|Cross, High, Wilts, 164.
     |
  201|Cross Lanes, Devon, 151.
     |
    4|Cross, New, Surrey, 1, 15.
     |
   10|=Croydon=, Surrey, 53. A market town and parish. The town is in
     |general well built, and pleasantly situated on the edge of
     |Banstead Downs, containing 1474 houses, and 7801 inhabitants. Its
     |chief manufactures are paper and printed cottons; and its church
     |is a handsome Gothic structure, containing several fine monuments,
     |particularly of the archbishops of Canterbury, and formerly had a
     |chantery.
     |
     |The manor has belonged to the archbishop of Canterbury from the
     |days of William the Conqueror; but the archbishops’ palace is now
     |converted into a manufactory. Vast quantities of charcoal are made
     |here, with wood brought from the neighbouring hills, and it has a
     |market on Saturday, which is well supplied with all kinds of
     |provision, particularly fowl, oats, and oatmeal.
     |
   39|=Cuckfield=, Sussex, 50. A market town and parish, situated on a
     |rising ground, having a spacious and handsome church, and a free
     |grammar school, founded in the reign of Queen Elizabeth. It has a
     |small market on Friday.
     |
  275|Cuckold’s Corner, Cornwall, 130.
     |
   89|Cuffs Corner, Wilts, 185.
     |
  201|Cuffs Corner, Wilts, 200.
     |
     |Curbridge Common, Hants, 213.
     |
   80|Cursus, The, Wilts, 161. (_See Amesbury._)
     |
  183|Cutton, Devon, 197.
     |
     |
     |D.
     |
  151|Dalwood Down, Dorset, 114.
     |
  194|Dart Bridge, Devon, 119.
     |
   15|=Dartford=, Kent, 2. A market town, deriving its name from an
     |ancient ford over the river Darent. Here are to be seen the
     |remains of a magnificent nunnery, founded by Edward the Third, (of
     |which Bridget, the daughter of Edward the Fourth was prioress;)
     |which at the Reformation was converted into a royal mansion. A
     |branch of the old Roman Watling-street passes through this town.
     |The parish church is situated in the main street, which is wide
     |and commodious, with several handsome shops, and a good bridge
     |over the Darent. The assizes were formerly held here. In the
     |neighbourhood are some gunpowder mills, much esteemed for their
     |produce.
     |
     |This town is remarkable for having been the place where the
     |rebellion of Wat Tyler and Jack Straw, first broke out, occasioned
     |by the indecent behaviour of a tax gatherer towards the daughter
     |of Tyler, who killed the offender with a pole-axe. The market is
     |on Saturday, and it is well supplied with provisions, corn,
     |cattle, &c. Dartford contains 535 houses, and 3177 inhabitants.
     |
   16|Dartford Brent, Kent, 3.
     |
   20|Datchet, Bucks, 175. This village is pleasantly situated opposite
     |Windsor Little Park, by the side of the Thames, over which it has
     |a bridge. It contains 102 houses, and 857 inhabitants.
     |
   51|Dean, Hants, 99.
     |
  195|Dean Prior, Devon, 120. A parish containing 93 houses, and 495
     |inhabitants.
     |
   56|Dean, West, Sussex, 35. A parish containing 103 houses, and 510
     |inhabitants.
     |
   64|Denford, Lower, Berks, 181.
     |
     |Dennis’s, St., Abbey, Hants, 221.
     |
    4|Deptford, Kent, 1. This town is divided into Upper and Lower
     |Deptford, and contains 3068 houses, and 17,548 inhabitants; it has
     |a commodious stone bridge over the small river Ravensbourn, near
     |its fall into the Thames, at which place was anciently a very
     |_deep ford_, whence the name of the town.
     |
     |The old church of St. Nicholas consists of a chancel, nave, and
     |two aisles, and was rebuilt, excepting the tower, in 1697.
     |
     |The new church of St. Paul, which is a handsome stone structure,
     |with a chancel, nave, and two aisles, supported by pillars of the
     |Corinthian order, was erected in 1730, as one of the 50 new
     |churches within the bills of mortality; when, by act of
     |parliament, it was made a distinct parish.
     |
     |The Royal Dock Yard was first erected in the reign of Henry the
     |Eighth. The storehouses, which form a square, have had several
     |additional buildings; the whole yard covers 31 acres of ground,
     |containing two wet docks, one single the other double, three
     |slips, a bason, and two ponds for masts, with the various
     |manufactories for anchors, cables, masts, blocks, &c. and
     |apartments for the numerous officers employed. Here the royal
     |yachts are generally kept. There are also several private docks in
     |the neighbourhood for the building and repair of merchants’
     |vessels. The Red House, a little to the north-west of Deptford, is
     |the grand store for provisions, &c. for the royal navy.
     |
     |On the site where St. Nicholas’ workhouse now stands, was the
     |manor house of Say’s Court, which was the residence of the Czar,
     |Peter the Great, when he worked as a shipwright in this yard. Here
     |the Society of the Trinity House was first formed in the reign of
     |Henry the Eighth, and incorporated under the title of Master,
     |Warden, and Assistants of the Guild of the Most Glorious and
     |Undivided Trinity; the object of which institution is, for the
     |increase and encouragement of navigation, and the good government
     |of mariners, shipping, &c.
     |
   87|Deptford, Wilts, 162, 207.
     |
   90|Derry Hill, Wilts, 185.
     |
  111|Deverel Down, Dorset, 108.
     |
  187|Devicourt Devon, 149.
     |
   41|Devil’s Punch Bowl, Surrey, 28.
     |
   88|=Devizes=, Wilts, 199. A borough and market town, comprising three
     |parishes, and containing 890 houses, and 4851 inhabitants; its
     |manufactures chiefly consist of druggets, serges, kerseymeres, and
     |malting. It has two churches and a chapel. The houses are old, and
     |mostly built of timber. The Romans enclosed it with a vallum and
     |ditch, in which there is now a road almost round the town; and on
     |a small hill within the town are to be seen the remains of its
     |strong castle. It is well fortified by nature, and was made almost
     |impregnable by Roger, Bishop of Salisbury. Brass figures of
     |household gods, coins, bricks, and urns, evidently Roman, have
     |been dug up here.
     |
     |Near the castle rises a rivulet, which falls into the Avon near
     |Bramham; and the town is greatly improved by the Kennet and Avon
     |Canal, which here presents a beautiful appearance. The new Gaol,
     |at the western extremity of the town, is also worthy of notice.
     |
     |This borough was incorporated by Charles the First, and sends two
     |members to parliament. The markets are on Monday for butchers’
     |meat, and on Thursday for horses, cattle, corn, wool, provisions,
     |poultry, &c.
     |
  143|Devon Gate, Devon, 170.
     |
   44|Dial Post, Sussex, 66.
     |
     |Ditchampton, Wilts, 208. (_Population included with Wilton_)
     |
   14|Ditton Common, Surrey, 25.
     |
   13|Ditton Marsh, Surrey, 24.
     |
  237|Dobwalls, Cornwall, 125.
     |
   71|Dock Yard, Portsmouth, Hants, 32. (_see Portsmouth_)
     |
   54|Dog Kennel, Sussex, 39.
     |
  120|=Dorchester=, Dorset, 109, 171. A borough, market, and county
     |town, standing on an elevation on the river Frome, comprising
     |three parishes, 364 houses, and 2546 inhabitants. Its principal
     |manufactures are serge and broad cloth. Its ancient name was
     |_Durnovaria_, signifying the _passage of the river_, and it was
     |strongly fortified, having four gates and a deep ditch; and in the
     |time of the Saxons two mints were established here.
     |
     |The town is built in the direction of the four cardinal points,
     |and the buildings are good. The foundation of the Roman wall
     |appears quite round the town; but to the east there is a street
     |built upon it, and the ditch is filled up. On the south-west side
     |of the wall there is an agreeable walk between a row of trees; but
     |the winding of the river to the north spoils the square of the
     |town that way. It has a newly erected town hall and market place,
     |and a commodious county gaol, built after Mr. Howard’s plan, on
     |the site of an ancient castle. The streets are neatly paved, and
     |the houses in general built regularly of stone.
     |
     |Dorchester sends two members to parliament, and the assizes for
     |the county are held here. Several Roman antiquities, and the
     |remains of military ways, have been discovered in this town,
     |particularly a Mosaic pavement, four feet under the surface of the
     |ground. St. Peter’s is the only church that can be called
     |handsome. In the neighbourhood are extensive meadows, and a down
     |on which vast flocks of sheep are fed. This place is noted for the
     |excellence of its ale, which is sent to all parts of the kingdom.
     |It has a good market on Wednesday and Saturday.
     |
   23|=Dorking=, Surrey, 63. A market town and parish. The town stands
     |on a rock of soft sandy stone, in the angle of two fine vallies,
     |surrounded by beautiful hills. The church is collegiate, and has a
     |square tower near the centre, with eight bells, and a set of
     |chimes. The streets are wide, well paved, and very clean. A great
     |traffic is carried on in lime, which is accounted superior to any
     |other made in the country: the town also supports a considerable
     |trade in meal. Dorking is noted for its breed of poultry, which is
     |remarkably large and fine, and singular for the birds having five
     |toes in each claw. Capons bred here about Christmas, often weigh
     |seven or eight pounds out of the feathers.
     |
     |In the suburbs are many elegant seats.
     |
     |The custom of Borough English prevails in this manor, by which the
     |_youngest_ son is heir to a copyhold estate. It contains 607
     |houses, and 3259 inhabitants; and has a market on Thursday.
     |
   71|=Dover=, Kent, 10. A sea port and market town, and one of the
     |cinque ports, containing 3068 houses, and 13,418 inhabitants. This
     |town lies in a valley, encompassed by a semicircle of hills, and
     |was formerly surrounded by a wall which had 10 gates, and appears
     |to have been in a very flourishing state in the reign of Edward
     |the Confessor, who incorporated it by the style of a mayor and
     |commonalty.
     |
     |The town consists of two parts, connected by a long narrow street,
     |called Snaresgate Street, from the lofty rocks that overhang it,
     |and seem to threaten the passenger with instant death. The town
     |hall stands in the market place, and is ornamented with several
     |good portraits, and a curious print of the embarkation of Henry
     |the Eighth for France. It has also a neat assembly room, a
     |theatre, and two circulating libraries.
     |
     |Here were formerly seven churches, but five of them have long
     |since been demolished; those remaining are dedicated to St. Mary
     |the Virgin, and St. James: the former was built by the prior and
     |convent of St. Martin’s, for the use of the inhabitants, and the
     |foundation of its tower was built upon the remains of an ancient
     |Roman bath. The church of St. James anciently belonged to the
     |castle, and in it the Courts of Chancery and Admiralty for the
     |Cinque Ports are still occasionally held. In the reign of Henry
     |the Third a large religious house was founded by Hubert de Burgh,
     |Earl of Kent, at the end of this town, called the _Maison Dieu_;
     |but at the time of the reformation it was converted into a
     |victualling office, for which purpose it is still used.
     |
     |Dover is celebrated in history as a place of the greatest
     |importance ever since the Norman Conquest. Its ancient castle is
     |supposed to have been built by Julius Cæsar. Henry the Second,
     |about the year 1153, is said to have enclosed it with a new wall.
     |The present entrance is on the south side of the main tower, by a
     |grand flight of steps round the eastern side to the third story,
     |or the governor’s apartments. These steps were secured by three
     |strong gates, at each of which was a chamber or guard room, and a
     |dungeon for prisoners, in which several persons of distinction
     |have been confined at different times, but now used only for
     |disorderly soldiers. These entrances, before the use of gunpowder,
     |were impregnable, the walls being 18 feet thick. Without the Duke
     |of Suffolk’s gate are commodious barracks, and wells which supply
     |the garrison with water, being about 370 feet deep. After this
     |castle was surrendered to William the Conqueror, it was
     |considerably strengthened, and made more secure by the erection of
     |two exterior walls from the Saxon fortification to the very edge
     |of the perpendicular cliff and additional towers. In the exterior
     |wall of the castle are 17 towers, most of them named from the
     |persons under whom they were erected.
     |
     |In the reign of Charles I. this strong fortress was taken by
     |surprise by a few men in the night. One Drake, a zealous
     |republican, formed a plan to seize the garrison; and, accompanied
     |by 10 or 12 men, at midnight, by the assistance of ropes and
     |scaling ladders, he reached the top of the high cliff
     |undiscovered. Having dispatched the sentinel, they threw open the
     |gates, and the garrison, who were few in number, in the confusion
     |supposing themselves to be attacked by superior numbers,
     |surrendered up the castle to this handful of desperadoes.
     |
     |Under the castle to the north of the town, Captain Smith, the
     |father of the gallant Sir Sidney Smith, has erected a pleasant
     |though whimsical residence, called The Cave; it is hewn out of the
     |solid rock.
     |
     |Near the edge of the cliff is a beautiful piece of brass ordnance,
     |24 feet long, cast at Utrecht, in 1544, called _Queen Anne’s
     |Pocket Pistol_, finely ornamented with figures in bass-relief: it
     |was a present from the States of Holland to the Queen, and is said
     |to be capable of carrying a twelve pound shot to the distance of
     |seven miles.
     |
     |In time of peace this town is a great thoroughfare for persons
     |passing and re-passing to and from France, the channel here being
     |only nine leagues across to Calais, and with a fair wind the
     |voyage is often made in one tide.
     |
     |The harbour has been considerably improved of late years, but
     |still will only admit vessels of moderate burthen. The piers which
     |form the haven are very costly works, defended by some very strong
     |batteries, which are now continued in a chain along the coast,
     |with numerous martello towers, &c. The market days are on
     |Wednesday and Saturday.
     |
  117|Downhead, Somerset, 166. A hamlet containing 43 houses, and 225
     |inhabitants.
     |
   59|Down Hurstbourn, Hants, 100.
     |
  106|Down, Little, Dorset, 107.
     |
   86|Down, Little, Wilts, 162.
     |
  122|Down, North, Dorset, 110.
     |
  127|Down, North, Somerset, 142.
     |
   45|Down Wood, Sussex, 20.
     |
  224|Dozmare Pool, Cornwall, 154.
     |
     |Drayton, Hants, 214, 223.
     |
   90|Drove End, Wilts, 105.
     |
   64|Droxford, Hants, 97. A parish containing 210 houses, and 1199
     |inhabitants. It is pleasantly situated in a fine open country,
     |having an extensive view over Portsdown. The church is a good
     |building, of Saxon architecture.
     |
   80|Druidical Temple, Wilts, 183, 198. The ruins of this temple
     |evidently manifest its having once been the most extensive in the
     |kingdom of which at present we have any remains, though from its
     |situation being low, and it having been encroached upon by a
     |village being formed within its area, consequently obscuring it by
     |the erection of houses, planting trees, hedges, &c. it has not
     |become so much an object of attention as Stonehenge, and other
     |relicks of the kind situated on more commanding and less
     |cultivated districts. This is nevertheless more calculated to
     |excite astonishment, if strictly investigated, than any one of the
     |others, though, from the circumstances above stated, it is
     |certainly less striking to the superficial observer. As a monument
     |of the peculiar rights and customs of a people with whose history,
     |manners, and establishments we are totally unacquainted, this
     |stupendous ruin certainly claims particular attention, there being
     |still remaining numerous objects to awaken curiosity, and excite
     |research.
     |
     |In its perfect state, this immense temple must have presented an
     |appearance at once solemn and impressive: at present, part of its
     |site is occupied by the village of Avebury, with the high road
     |passing through it, bounded by lofty hills, and the greater part
     |encircled by a deep and wide ditch, and a lofty vallum, within
     |which are several very large stones, some standing erect, and
     |others lying on the ground; at some distance, south and west of
     |the village, are other stones in similar situations. According to
     |Stukely, this temple originally consisted of 650 stones,
     |independent of a large cromlech about a mile to the north.
     |
     |The vast barrow, called _Silbury Hill_, and numerous others in the
     |neighbourhood, are all apparently connected with the work.
     |
  186|Drum Bridge, Devon, 118.
     |
  223|Drywork, Cornwall, 154.
     |
  103|Duncliff, Dorset, 139.
     |
  110|Duncorn Hill, Somerset, 187.
     |
   53|Duncton, Sussex, 39. A parish containing 30 houses, and 205
     |inhabitants.
     |
   51|Duncton Common, Sussex, 39.
     |
   53|Duncton Hill, Sussex, 39.
     |
  111|Dunkerton, Somerset, 187. A parish containing 46 houses, and 238
     |inhabitants.
     |
   89|Dunkirk, Wilts, 199.
     |
   37|Dunk’s Place, Kent, 19.
     |
   55|Dunstan’s, St., Kent, 8. A parish containing 132 houses, and 707
     |inhabitants.
     |
   21|Dunton Green, Kent, 17.
     |
     |Durrington, Sussex, 218.
     |
     |
     |E.
     |
   38|Early Common, Berks, 177.
     |
   59|Eartham, Sussex, 42. A parish containing 19 houses, and 114
     |inhabitants.
     |
   59|Eartham Common, Sussex, 42.
     |
   49|Easebourn, Sussex, 34. A parish containing 90 houses, and 764
     |inhabitants.
     |
   61|Eastergate, Sussex, 42. A parish containing 21 houses, and 163
     |inhabitants.
     |
   64|Eddington, Berks, 181. (_Population included with Chilton_)
     |
  139|Edington, Somerset, 191. A hamlet situated on a Moor, containing
     |46 houses, and 284 inhabitants. A number of clay moulds have been
     |found here for making Roman coins, some of them joined with the
     |metal in them, 20 of which are still preserved in the Ashmolean
     |Museum.
     |
   52|Egdean, Sussex, 43. A small parish, containing 11 houses, and 72
     |inhabitants.
     |
   51|Egdean Common, Sussex, 43.
     |
   18|Egham, Surrey, 71. A parish containing 363 houses, and 2190
     |inhabitants. On Runny Mead are annual horse races, which are well
     |attended.
     |
   19|Egham Common, Surrey, 71.
     |
  120|Emborrow, Somerset, 189. A township containing 54 houses, and 241
     |inhabitants.
     |
     |Emsworth, Hants, 215. A hamlet to the parish of Warblington,
     |pleasantly situated close to the sea, and noted for the peculiar
     |flavour of its oysters. A small neat chapel has been erected here,
     |the parish church of Warblington being above a mile distant.
     |
     |Emsworth Harbour, Sussex, 215.
     |
     |End, East, Hants, 212.
     |
     |End, East, Wilts, 207.
     |
     |End, West, Hants, 212.
     |
   45|Englefield, Berks, 178. A parish containing 62 houses, and 336
     |inhabitants.
     |
  246|Enoder, St., Cornwall, 157. A parish containing 159 houses, and
     |869 inhabitants.
     |
   14|Epsom, Surrey, 62. This village is delightfully situated on the
     |west side of Banstead Downs, near which are some medicinal
     |springs, discovered in 1618, formerly in much repute, but now,
     |like most of those near London, quite neglected.
     |
     |This place is but badly supplied with water, chiefly from a pond
     |in the middle of the town, at one end of which is the town close.
     |The church stands about a mile and a half from the town.
     |
     |On the Downs are annual horse races, which are generally much
     |frequented. The race-course being on an elevated situation,
     |commands an extensive view of the surrounding country.
     |
     |Epsom contains 414 houses, and 2404 inhabitants.
     |
   15|Epsom Common, Surrey, 62.
     |
  252|Erme, St., Cornwall, 158. A parish containing 70 houses, and 358
     |inhabitants.
     |
   15|Esher, Surrey, 25. A parish containing 154 houses, and 874
     |inhabitants. It commands a pleasant and beautiful prospect over
     |the surrounding country.
     |
   17|Esher Common, Surrey, 25.
     |
   22|Eton, Bucks, 175. This village, which consists principally of one
     |street, is pleasantly situated on the north bank of the river
     |Thames, opposite Windsor, to which it is connected by a bridge. It
     |contains 290 houses, and 2026 inhabitants.
     |
   22|Eton College, Bucks, 175. This noble seminary of learning was
     |founded by the unfortunate Henry the Sixth, in the year 1440. It
     |is most advantageously situated in a valley both healthy and
     |fertile, through which the river Thames winds its delightful
     |course at a short distance from its walls, contributing greatly to
     |the beauty of this truly interesting scene.
     |
     |This institution supports a provost, vice-provost, and seventy
     |scholars, with various officers and assistants. Besides which
     |there are seldom less than 300 noblemen and gentlemen’s sons, who
     |board with the masters, and receive their education at this
     |seminary.
     |
     |The college consists of two quadrangles: one of them is
     |appropriated to the school, and the lodging of the masters and
     |scholars; the other contains the apartments of the provost and
     |fellows, and likewise the library, which is regarded as one of the
     |finest in Europe. Some very valuable drawings, paintings, and
     |oriental manuscripts, are among its curiosities.
     |
     |The chapel is a fine gothic structure, ornamented with pinnacles
     |and embrasures.
     |
   68|Ewell, Kent, 10. A parish containing 34 houses, and 172
     |inhabitants.
     |
   13|=Ewell=, Surrey, 61. A market town and parish, containing 194
     |houses, and 1112 inhabitants. It is pleasantly situated, and
     |remarkable for its numerous crystal springs, which unite and form
     |the head of a fine stream, called Hog’s Mill River, which falls
     |into the Thames at Kingston. The market is on Thursday.
     |
  172|EXETER, Devon, 116, 147, 197. This city was formerly called
     |_Excestor_, or a city standing on the river Ex, and more anciently
     |_Isex_; it was the _Isca Danmoniorum_ of the Romans. It is about
     |three miles in circumference, a bishop’s see, and contains 3208
     |houses, and 20,305 inhabitants, together with fifteen churches
     |within the walls, and four without, besides several chapels.
     |
     |The cathedral, dedicated to St. Peter, is a magnificent pile; but
     |little of the original fabric remains, except the _Lady Chapel_.
     |It has a ring of twelve bells, and an excellent organ. On the left
     |side of the altar is still to be seen the seat where Edward the
     |Confessor and his Queen sat and installed Leofricus, the first
     |bishop, and in the south aisle is the same bishop’s monument. The
     |north tower contains a bell, weighing 17,472 pounds.
     |
     |This city consists of four principal streets, all well paved, and
     |meeting at a point, near which is a conduit. In the north-east
     |part is an old castle, supposed to have been first built by the
     |West Saxons, and was remarkably strong, both by nature and art; it
     |also contains many spacious and elegant public buildings, and has
     |a good bridge over the Ex, which cost £20,000. By means of
     |floodgates, for keeping up the water at the flowing of the tide,
     |vessels of 150 tons are brought to the quay near the city walls.
     |
     |Exeter gives title of marquis to the Cecil family, and sends two
     |members to parliament. Its principal manufactures are woollen
     |goods, of various descriptions; and here is held a weekly serge
     |market, the largest in England, excepting that at Leeds, besides
     |two other markets on Wednesday and Friday, for provisions, &c.
     |This city is reckoned very healthy, notwithstanding its numerous
     |population, and the closeness of the buildings.
     |
   62|Exton, Hants, 96. A parish containing 37 houses, and 224
     |inhabitants. About two miles distant from the town, on a hill,
     |there appears to have been a Roman camp, fortified with a rampart,
     |called _Old Winchester_, where, according to tradition, there was
     |formerly a city.
     |
  136|Eype Down, Dorset, 112.
     |
     |Eyre’s Summer House, Wilts, 209.
     |
     |
     |F.
     |
   18|Fair Mile, Surrey, 25.
     |
  243|Fairy Cross, Cornwall, 126.
     |
   54|Falmer, Sussex, 60. A parish containing 48 houses, and 255
     |inhabitants.
     |
  279|=Falmouth=, Cornwall, 130. A sea port and market town of
     |considerable trade, situated at the mouth of the river Fale,
     |containing 578 houses, and 4849 inhabitants, and having a
     |commodious harbour, of sufficient depth to contain the largest
     |ships, and defended by two castles, strongly fortified, built by
     |Henry the Eighth.
     |
     |The town is tolerably well built, and has a custom-house for most
     |of the Cornish towns. It carries on a considerable fishery of
     |pilchards; and the packet boats for Spain, Portugal, and the West
     |Indies, are established here. It has a good market on Tuesday,
     |Thursday, and Saturday.
     |
     |Falmouth Harbour, Cornwall, 130. (_see Falmouth_)
     |
   73|=Fareham=, Hants, 98, 222. A market town, situated at the
     |north-west extremity of Portsmouth Harbour, containing 621 houses,
     |and 3325 inhabitants. During the summer season this town is much
     |frequented for the purpose of sea-bathing, having a commodious
     |bathing-house; and the houses are tolerably well built.
     |
     |Its principal manufactures are sacking and ropes; it has also a
     |considerable trade in coals, and a good market on Wednesday.
     |
     |Farlington, Hants, 214, 223. A parish containing 53 houses, and
     |302 inhabitants.
     |
   32|Farnborough, Hants, 80. A parish containing 48 houses, and 241
     |inhabitants.
     |
   14|Farnborough, Kent, 16. A township and chapelry, containing 57
     |houses, and 314 inhabitants.
     |
   38|=Farnham=, Surrey, 81. A market town, situated on the river Wey,
     |containing 538 houses, and 2910 inhabitants, and deriving its name
     |from the quantity of fern which grows in its vicinity. The town is
     |neat, well paved, and has several handsome houses.
     |
     |Near this town is a cave formed in a rock, called _Mother Ludlam’s
     |Hole_, through which passes a continual stream of fine water,
     |which, after falling down a number of marble steps, runs into the
     |river in the meadow below: this grotto is said to have been the
     |favourite study of Dean Swift, when on a visit to Sir William
     |Temple. It is large, but diminishes gradually, and winds away as
     |the spring seems to have directed it. The bottom is paved with
     |Mosaic tile: it is separated by a little parapet, through which
     |the water flows, and falls into small marble troughs below each
     |other, till conveyed out of the grotto. It appears that these
     |springs were collected together for the use of the adjacent
     |monastery. Part of the abbey and chapel ruins are still to be
     |seen. In the neighbourhood are many extensive hop plantations. The
     |market is held on Thursday.
     |
   22|Farnham End, Bucks, 175.
     |
   50|Farringdon, Hants, 95. A parish containing 64 houses, and 387
     |inhabitants.
     |
   47|=Faversham=, Kent, 7. A market town and parish, situated on the
     |river Swale, containing 639 houses, and 3655 inhabitants. The town
     |appears to be very ancient, and the two Roman saints, Crispin and
     |Crispianus, are said to have founded an asylum here, where they
     |were bound apprentices to a shoemaker.
     |
     |So early as the year 811, this was denominated the King’s Town, in
     |which King Cenwall granted a charter to Wulford, Archbishop of
     |Canterbury. Here are also to be seen the ruins of an abbey,
     |founded by King Stephen.
     |
     |The parish church is supposed to have been built about the reign
     |of Edward the First. It is in the form of a cross: the walls are
     |of flint, quoined with stone from Caen. The inside of the church
     |is handsome, and well worthy of observation. Here are likewise an
     |elegant assembly room, and a neat theatre.
     |
     |Faversham is noted for its extensive manufacture of gunpowder, and
     |also for its celebrated oyster fishery, in which near 200 families
     |are employed. The markets, which are held on Wednesday and
     |Saturday, are well supplied with all kinds of provisions.
     |
   28|Felbridge, Sussex, 56.
     |
  159|Fenny Bridges, Devon, 115.
     |
   45|Fernhurst, Sussex, 34.
     |
  106|Fifehead, Dorset, 139. A parish containing 15 houses, and 72
     |inhabitants.
     |
   69|Fifield, Hants, 159. A parish containing 43 houses, and 193
     |inhabitants.
     |
   56|Filmer Hill, Hants, 96.
     |
   51|Finden, Sussex, 67. A parish containing 57 houses, and 381
     |inhabitants.
     |
     |Fishbourn, Sussex, 215. A parish containing 26 houses, and 309
     |inhabitants.
     |
     |Fishbourn, Old, Sussex, 215.
     |
   43|Fisher Street, Sussex, 37.
     |
   88|Fisherton de-la-Mere, Wilts, 162, 207. A parish containing 57
     |houses, and 207 inhabitants.
     |
   81|Fisherton, Wilts, 136, 209. A parish containing 189 houses, and
     |865 inhabitants. This place is of great antiquity, and formerly
     |had a house of black friars.
     |
   50|Fish Pond Wood, Kent, 7.
     |
   52|Fittleworth, Sussex, 43. A parish containing 81 houses, and 564
     |inhabitants.
     |
   53|Fittleworth Bridge, Sussex, 43.
     |
  242|Five Barrow Hill, Cornwall, 126.
     |
  174|Five Bridges, Devon, 196.
     |
  107|Five Bridges, Dorset, 139.
     |
  220|Five Lanes, Cornwall, 153.
     |
   44|Flimwell, Sussex, 20.
     |
  116|Flowers Hill, Somerset, 202.
     |
  279|Flushing, Cornwall, 130.
     |
   27|Folly, The, Berks, 176.
     |
   91|Fonthill Down, Wilts, 163.
     |
   94|Fonthill Giffard, Wilts, 163. A parish containing 76 houses, and
     |494 inhabitants.
     |
  208|Ford, Devon, 121.
     |
  140|Ford, Somerset, 191.
     |
   79|Ford, Wilts, 103, 135.
     |
   38|Ford Green, Sussex, 58.
     |
  121|Fordington Fields, Dorset, 171.
     |
  143|Fordwater, Dorset, 144.
     |
   80|Forest, New, Hants, 87, 88, 92. This forest extends from Godshill
     |on the north-west, to the sea on the south-east about 20 miles,
     |and from Hardley on the east, to Ringwood on the west, being 15
     |miles; containing 92,365 statute acres: and from its situation,
     |with respect to water carriage, and its vicinity to Portsmouth
     |Dock-yard, is far superior to every other forest in the kingdom.
     |
   32|Forest Row, Sussex, 57.
     |
   77|Forton, Hants, 98. (_Population included with Gosport_)
     |
  110|Fosse Road, Somerset, 187.
     |
  225|Four Holes Cross, Cornwall, 154.
     |
   91|Fovant, Wilts, 137. A parish containing 100 houses, and 514
     |inhabitants.
     |
  244|Fradden, Cornwall, 157.
     |
   56|Freefolk, Hants, 100. A hamlet containing 8 houses, and 54
     |inhabitants. Here is a paper mill, where the finer kinds of paper
     |are manufactured, particularly that sort used by the Bank of
     |England.
     |
   68|Friars’ Hill, Hants, 78.
     |
   45|Friars’ Oak, Sussex, 50.
     |
   44|Friday’s Hill, Sussex, 34.
     |
   30|Frimley, Surrey, 80. A hamlet containing 83 houses, and 532
     |inhabitants.
     |
   30|Frimley Bridge, Hants, 80.
     |
   27|Frimley Heath, Surrey, 72, 80.
     |
  102|Frog Lane, Wilts, 164.
     |
   67|Froxfield, Wilts, 182. A parish containing 128 houses, and 492
     |inhabitants. Here is a handsome and well-endowed almshouse,
     |founded by Sarah, Duchess Dowager of Somerset, for the maintenance
     |of 30 poor widows.
     |
   44|Froyle, Hants, 82. A parish containing 123 houses, and 744
     |inhabitants.
     |
   84|Fugglestone, Wilts, 136, 208. A parish containing 111 houses, and
     |590 inhabitants.
     |
  193|Fullaford, Devon, 149.
     |
   47|Furley Hill, Sussex, 34.
     |
   43|Furness, Old, Sussex, 65.
     |
  193|Furzely, Devon, 119.
     |
   77|Fyfield, Wilts, 183.
     |
     |
     |G.
     |
   26|Gad’s Hill, Kent, 4. This place has been rendered famous by
     |Shakspeare making it the scene of the frolics of Henry the Fifth,
     |when Prince of Wales, and his companion Falstaff. On the spot is a
     |public house, bearing the prince’s head on one side, and the fat
     |knight and his companion on the other.
     |
  192|Gaggs, Devon, 119.
     |
   19|Galley Hill, Kent, 3.
     |
   22|Gander’s Hole, Surrey, 47.
     |
  243|Gaverigon, Cornwall, 156.
     |
  239|Gelly Copse, Cornwall, 125.
     |
  226|=Germains, St.=, Cornwall, 124. A borough, town, and parish,
     |containing 350 houses, and 2030 inhabitants. The town is situated
     |on a rising ground near the river Tidi, a branch of the Lyhner. It
     |was a bishop’s see, gives title of Earl to the family of Eliot,
     |and sends two members to parliament. It owes its name to a bishop
     |of Auxene, who extirpated the Pelagian heresy from Britain, and to
     |whose memory King Athelstan here founded a priory of secular
     |canons. The see of Bodmin was translated hither in 981, and the
     |remains of the bishop’s palace may still be traced in a farm about
     |one mile distant from the town. The conventual church, which is
     |now used as the parish church, is a large and handsome building,
     |and still contains an episcopal choir, and the prebends’ stalls.
     |
     |The parish of St. Germains is the largest in the county, including
     |sixteen villages.
     |
   64|Giles’s, St., Hill, Hants, 84.
     |
  131|=Glastonbury=, Somerset, 190. A market town, consisting of two
     |parishes, containing 486 houses, and 2337 inhabitants. It derived
     |its celebrity from its abbey, which, during a period of six
     |hundred years, surpassed in value and authority every other in
     |England, except that of Westminster; the grandeur of its ruins
     |still convey an idea to the beholder of its ancient magnificence.
     |The abbot lived in all the state of regal splendour, with an
     |income of near forty thousand pounds _per annum_. The last abbot,
     |refusing to surrender his abbey to King Henry the Eighth, was,
     |with two of his monks, drawn on a hurdle to the Torr, near the
     |town, and there hanged.
     |
     |This is said to be the burial place of the famous King Arthur.
     |
     |The town and environs of Glastonbury abound with religious relics;
     |the most conspicuous of which is the Torr, or St. Michael’s Tower,
     |which still remains an object of admiration to travellers.
     |
     |The town was built by king Ina, about the year 708, when after
     |having been destroyed by the Danes, and subsequently by fire, it
     |was rebuilt by Henry the Second.
     |
     |Near the town are found several petrifactions, resembling snakes,
     |cockles, oyster-shells, &c. The market is on Tuesday.
     |
  277|Gluvias, St., Cornwall, 130.
     |
   33|=Godalming=, Surrey, 27. A market town and parish, containing 680
     |houses, and 3543 inhabitants. This town is delightfully situated
     |in a valley by the side of the river Wey, which is navigable from
     |thence to Weybridge, where it falls into the Thames. The church is
     |a neat building with a high and handsome spire. Its chief
     |manufactures are woollen goods, particularly stockings and fleecy
     |hosiery. Market on Saturday.
     |
   20|Godstone Green, Surrey, 55.
     |
  181|Golds Cross, Devon, 148.
     |
  275|Gonree, Cornwall, 130.
     |
  275|Gonree Moor, Cornwall, 130.
     |
   78|=Gosport=, Hants, 98. A market town situated on the west side of
     |Portsmouth Harbour, over which there is a constant ferry. It
     |contains 1474 houses, and 7788 inhabitants.
     |
     |This is a place of great trade and business, but more particularly
     |so in time of war, from the number of docks here for the King’s
     |service, and likewise a large iron foundery, in which various
     |articles are cast for the use of the navy.
     |
     |A little to the south of this town near the sea, is that noble
     |building, Haslar Hospital, for the cure of the sick and wounded
     |seamen in his Majesty’s service. This building was begun in 1746,
     |and finished in 1762, it stands on a dry gravelly soil, and is
     |surrounded with an airing ground, near a mile in circumference,
     |enclosed with a wall twelve feet high. On a pediment in the front
     |of the hospital are various emblematical sculptures. The hall is
     |very spacious, and the wards are all uniformly sixty feet long,
     |and twenty broad.
     |
     |It has a strong fort, with a platform well mounted with cannon to
     |defend the entrance into the harbour. The market is on Saturday.
     |
  260|=Grampound=, Cornwall, 128. A borough and market town, containing
     |99 houses, and 601 inhabitants. It was made a borough, with very
     |extensive privileges, by Edward the First, particularly that of
     |freedom of toll throughout all Cornwall. It has a good stone
     |bridge over the river Fale, or Vale, which is of considerable
     |breadth here; and sends two members to Parliament. The market is
     |on Saturday.
     |
   67|Gravel Hill, Hants, 97.
     |
   22|=Gravesend=, Kent, 3. A market-town, and the first port in the
     |river Thames, containing 536 houses, and 31,119 inhabitants.
     |
     |The old town of Gravesend was burnt in 1380 by the French and
     |Spaniards, who came up the river in row gallies. The present town
     |was erected for the defence of the river in 1513, and, by a grant
     |of Richard the Second, enjoys the privilege of conveying
     |passengers to and from London. The boats depart from Billingsgate
     |every tide at high water, on the ringing of a bell, and from
     |Gravesend to London every flood. The fare, which was originally
     |twopence, is now one shilling and sixpence. The church, which is
     |an elegant building, was erected in 1731. All outward-bound
     |vessels are obliged to bring-to here, till they have been examined
     |by the proper custom house officers, and receive their clearances;
     |here also all foreigners are detained on arriving from abroad,
     |till they have obtained permission from the Secretary of State’s
     |office to proceed; and all foreigners departing, must receive
     |their clearances from the Alien Office here. Opposite the
     |Block-house, on the Essex shore, is Tilbury Fort, having a strong
     |battery. The market on Wednesday and Saturday is well supplied,
     |and on Sunday there is a good fish market.
     |
   41|Gray’s Wood Common, Surrey, 33.
     |
  227|Greenbarrow, Cornwall, 154.
     |
  264|Green Mill, Cornwall, 128.
     |
   42|Green Street, Kent, 6.
     |
   15|Green Street Green, Kent, 16.
     |
  239|Gregland, Cornwall, 156.
     |
  117|Greys Wood, Dorset, 109.
     |
   87|Grims Ditch, Wilts, 104.
     |
  186|Grindown, Devon, 148.
     |
   29|=Grinsted, East=, Sussex, 57. A borough, market town, and parish,
     |containing 450 houses, and 2804 inhabitants. It is a borough by
     |prescription of great antiquity, and sends two members to
     |parliament. The tower of the church fell down in 1785, after
     |having stood just 100 years, and so much damaged the church, that
     |the whole was obliged to be rebuilt.
     |
     |At the end of the town is a large handsome stone building, called
     |_Sackville College_, erected by Sackville, Duke of Dorset, in the
     |reign of James the First; in which are accommodations for 24 aged
     |persons of both sexes, where each has a comfortable room, and a
     |yearly allowance of £8. It is governed by a warden and two
     |gentlemen assistants; and has a neat chapel, wherein the warden
     |reads prayers every morning. A suit of apartments in this edifice
     |was intended for the occasional residence of his Grace, but as he
     |never occupies it, the rooms are used by the Judges of the Circuit
     |during the Assizes, which are generally held here in Lent, though
     |the county gaol is at Horsham. The market is on Thursday, chiefly
     |for corn.
     |
   43|Grinsted, West, Sussex, 65. A parish containing 133 houses, and
     |939 inhabitants.
     |
   29|=Guildford=, Surrey, 27. A borough and market town, containing 527
     |houses, and 2974 inhabitants; it is pleasantly situated on the
     |side of a chalk hill on the banks of the river Wey, and was
     |anciently a royal town, being the residence of our monarchs. Part
     |of the remains of its castle are still visible, especially the
     |square tower, or keep, which has been a place of great strength.
     |Here are also some remains of a palace of considerable extent.
     |
     |Guildford gives title of Earl to the family of North; and sends
     |two members to parliament. It has a theatre and several handsome
     |public buildings; near the town is a circular race course, where a
     |plate of 100 guineas value, left by King William the Third, is
     |annually run for in the Whitsun-week, at which time there are also
     |three subscription plates run for; these races are in general well
     |attended. The market is on Saturday, and is well supplied.
     |
   96|Guissage, St. Andrew, Dorset, 106.
     |
   98|Guyers, Wilts, 186.
     |
     |
     |H.
     |
  178|Hal Down, Devon, 117.
     |
     |Hall Court, Hants, 213.
     |
   60|Halnaker, Sussex, 40, 216.
     |
     |Hambrook Common, Sussex, 215.
     |
   37|Hammer Ponds, Witley Common, Surrey, 28.
     |
    3|Hammersmith, Middlesex, 69. This village is pleasantly situated on
     |the north bank of the Thames, having many handsome seats and
     |villas in its neighbourhood; here is also a nunnery, in which many
     |devotees have taken the veil, and doomed themselves to voluntary
     |seclusion. Hammersmith contains 871 houses, and 5600 inhabitants.
     |
     |Hamoaze, Devon, 122. (_See Plymouth._)
     |
     |Hampnet, East, Sussex, 216.
     |
   62|Hampnet, West, Sussex, 40, 216.
     |
     |Hampot, Sussex, 217.
     |
   96|Hampreston Heath, Dorset, 89.
     |
   37|Hampstead Hill, Sussex, 49.
     |
   65|Hampton, Little, Sussex, 44. A parish and small sea port, situated
     |at the mouth of the river Arun, containing 112 houses, and 584
     |inhabitants. Of late years this place has been much frequented
     |during the season for sea bathing. In the neighbourhood formerly
     |stood several religious houses, and the remains of a Benedictine
     |monastery are still to be seen at Boxgrove.
     |
   35|Hand Cross, Sussex, 49.
     |
   41|Handstay Cross, Sussex, 50.
     |
     |Hanging Langford, Wilts, 207.
     |
   54|Harbledown, Kent, 8. A parish containing 95 houses, and 473
     |inhabitants. The church is pleasantly situated on a hill, opposite
     |to which is an hospital and chapel.
     |
  106|Hardway, Somerset, 173.
     |
   32|Hare Hatch, Berks, 177.
     |
   13|Harlington, Middlesex, 174. A parish containing 70 houses, and 363
     |inhabitants.
     |
   13|Harlington Corner, Middlesex, 174.
     |
   82|Harnham, Wilts, 104. A hamlet containing 40 houses, and 186
     |inhabitants.
     |
   82|Harnham Hill, Wilts, 104.
     |
   35|Hartford Bridge, Hants, 74.
     |
  129|Hartlake Bridge, Somerset, 190.
     |
  129|Hartlake Drain, Somerset, 190.
     |
   36|Hartley Row, Hants, 74.
     |
  128|Haselborough, Somerset, 142.
     |
   99|Haselbury Hill, Wilts, 186.
     |
   42|=Haslemere=, Surrey, 33. A borough and market town, containing 156
     |houses, and 756 inhabitants. It is a very ancient borough by
     |prescription, and has sent members to parliament ever since the
     |reign of Edward the Fourth. It is said formerly to have had five
     |parish churches, although it has now only a chapel to the mother
     |church of Chiddingfold. Its market is on Tuesday.
     |
   63|=Hastings=, Sussex, 22. A borough and market town, situated
     |between two hills, and containing 710 houses, and 3848
     |inhabitants. It is very ancient; in the year 924, in the reign of
     |Athelstan, it had a mint, and is supposed to have been built by
     |one Hastings, a Danish pirate, who erected a fort here to secure
     |his men in their retreat, after having pillaged the country. It is
     |the principal of the Cinque Ports, and formerly had a noted
     |harbour, but now a road only for small vessels, notwithstanding
     |the vast expence that has been frequently incurred in order to
     |clear it.
     |
     |The churches of St. Clement’s and All Saints, are ancient fabrics;
     |St. Clement’s contains several good monuments, and curious
     |inscriptions, with a neat altar piece. All Saint’s is spacious,
     |and has a pulpit cloth made of the canopy used at Queen Anne’s
     |coronation.
     |
     |Between the parishes of St. Clement’s and All Saint’s runs a fresh
     |water stream, called the Bourne, which supplies nearly the whole
     |town with water. The town is commanded by a strong fort, and the
     |whole of this coast is strongly fortified with batteries and
     |martello towers. Here is also a barrack for foot soldiers, and a
     |custom house, with an establishment of twelve riding officers;
     |this place and its neighbourhood being famous for a trade in
     |contraband goods. The streets are well paved, and from their
     |inclination towards the sea, are easily kept clean and neat.
     |
     |At low water Hastings has a fine level sand, of a great extent,
     |rendering bathing safe at any time of the tide, and it is a very
     |fashionable watering place, having a convenient bathing room at
     |the parade to the west of the town, which is, during the season,
     |furnished with every elegant amusement. The environs of this place
     |are beautifully romantic. At two miles distance is a large broad
     |stone, on which it is said King William the Conqueror dined on his
     |landing.
     |
     |On a hill westward of the town are the remains of an ancient
     |castle, the walls of which are in some places eight feet thick:
     |its shape is triangular, with the angles rounded, and the base or
     |south side is formed of a perpendicular craggy cliff, about 400
     |feet long. A little to the west of Castle Cliff is a farm house,
     |called the Priory, originally belonging to the order of Black
     |Canons; some of its walls are still to be seen, and close to the
     |farm yard is a piece of water, which, being drained off some years
     |ago, discovered a large hole near 30 feet deep, with the remains
     |of a sluice, gates, &c.
     |
     |This town was incorporated by James the Second, and sends two
     |members to parliament. Here was fought the famous battle between
     |Harold of England and William the Norman, in 1066, in which the
     |former was defeated and killed, and the latter became king of
     |England; in this battle the victors lost near 15,000 men, and the
     |conquered many more.
     |
     |The market is held on Wednesday and Saturday, and is well
     |supplied.
     |
    3|Hatcham, Surrey, 1. A hamlet containing 148 houses, and 734
     |inhabitants.
     |
  101|Hatt, Wilts, 200.
     |
     |=Havant=, Hants, 214. A market town and parish, containing 335
     |houses, and 1670 inhabitants. The church is a very ancient
     |building, and at a mile and a half distant are the ruins of
     |Warblington Castle. Its market, which is held on Saturday, is well
     |supplied with all kinds of grain.
     |
   37|Haver Hill, Sussex, 49.
     |
  220|Hay, Cornwall, 123.
     |
  114|Haydon, Dorset, 140. A parish containing 17 houses, and 83
     |inhabitants.
     |
  140|Hay Moor, Dorset, 145.
     |
  115|Hazlegrove, Somerset, 166.
     |
   61|Headbourn, Worthy, Hants, 77. A parish containing 25 houses, and
     |153 inhabitants.
     |
  178|Heath Cross, Devon, 147.
     |
   47|Heath, North, Sussex, 34.
     |
   14|Heath Row, Middlesex, 174.
     |
  171|Heavitree, Devon, 116. A parish containing 163 houses, and 833
     |inhabitants. This being the place of execution for the city of
     |Exeter, it is supposed to have derived its name from thence. It is
     |very pleasantly and healthily situated, and a number of the
     |inhabitants of Exeter have chosen it for a favourite residence.
     |
   29|Helden Green, Kent, 18.
     |
  179|Hele, Higher, Devon, 196.
     |
   12|Hell, Little, Surrey, 46.
     |
  221|Hendra, Cornwall, 153.
     |
   47|Henley Common, Sussex, 34.
     |
  109|Henstridge, Somerset, 140. A parish containing 152 houses, and 827
     |inhabitants.
     |
  109|Henstridge Ash, Somerset, 140.
     |
   70|Hens Wood, Wilts, 182.
     |
  177|Hentown, Devon, 147.
     |
   53|Herringdean Wood, Sussex, 35.
     |
  258|Hewas Water, Cornwall, 128.
     |
     |=Heytesbury=, Wilts, 206. A borough and parish, situated on the
     |river Wyley, containing 196 houses, and 1072 inhabitants. The
     |church is a spacious building, having been formerly collegiate,
     |with four prebends in it belonging to Salisbury cathedral: it is
     |built in the form of a cross, with a tower in the centre,
     |containing six bells; and is about 400 years old. Here is an
     |hospital for 12 aged men and one woman, well endowed.
     |
     |The greater part of this place was destroyed by fire in 1766, from
     |which circumstance the town has been considerably improved; it
     |consists principally of one main street, and being on the borders
     |of Salisbury Plain, is in a remarkably open and healthy situation.
     |It is an ancient borough by prescription, and sends two members to
     |parliament. A considerable woollen manufacture has been
     |established here, which has much increased its population, and it
     |formerly had a market.
     |
  115|Hicks’s Gate, Somerset, 202.
     |
  127|High Cross Hill, Somerset, 142.
     |
     |Highdown Hill, Sussex, 218.
     |
  123|Highleaze, Somerset, 142.
     |
  249|Highway, Cornwall, 127.
     |
  112|Hill, East, Somerset, 140.
     |
   68|Hilsea, Hants, 32. Here is a very extensive building of
     |considerable age, called Portchester Castle, generally used for
     |the reception of prisoners of war; here also are large and
     |commodious barracks for foot soldiers.
     |
   40|Hindhead Heath, Surrey and Hants, 28.
     |
   40|Hindhead Hill, Surrey, 28.
     |
   94|=Hindon=, Wilts, 163. A borough and market town, containing 175
     |houses, and 793 inhabitants. This town suffered greatly by fire in
     |1754, from which circumstance many of the houses are built in the
     |modern taste. The chapel of ease is a neat structure. Hindon is an
     |ancient borough by prescription, returns two members to
     |parliament, and has a market on Thursday.
     |
   47|Hoads Common, Sussex, 38.
     |
  180|Hockworthy, Devon, 148. A parish containing 56 houses, and 283
     |inhabitants.
     |
     |Hog Wood, Somerset, 204.
     |
  105|Holes Bay, Dorset, 90.
     |
  217|Holloway Cross, Cornwall, 153.
     |
  239|Hollywell, Cornwall, 156.
     |
  253|Holm Bush, Cornwall, 127.
     |
   25|Holmwood Common, Surrey, 63.
     |
  109|Holton, Somerset, 165.
     |
   46|Holybourn, Hants, 82. A hamlet containing 53 houses and 366
     |inhabitants.
     |
  125|Holy Tree, Somerset, 167.
     |
  156|=Honiton=, Devon, 114, 146, 170. A borough, market town, and
     |parish, containing 600 houses, and 2735 inhabitants. This town is
     |in a very improved state, the buildings being of modern erection,
     |from its having suffered considerably by fire at different times:
     |it is paved and lighted, and the houses mostly slated. The parish
     |church stands about half a mile distant from the town on a bold
     |eminence, and appears to have been erected at different periods;
     |the tower, a square embattled building, 63 feet high, contains
     |five bells, and near the church are stables to accommodate those
     |who ride from the neighbouring villages to hear divine service.
     |Its principal manufacture is that of broad lace. Before the
     |entrance of the town is a hill which commands one of the finest
     |prospects in the kingdom. The market is on Saturday.
     |
  176|Honiton’s Clyst, Devon, 116.
     |
   39|Hook, Hants, 74.
     |
   40|Hook Common, Hants, 74.
     |
   26|Hookwood Common, Surrey, 48.
     |
   16|Hooley, Surrey, 53.
     |
   65|Hopgrass, Wilts, 181.
     |
   27|Horley Church, Surrey, 48.
     |
   61|Horn Dean, Hants, 31.
     |
   17|Horn’s Cross, Kent, 3.
     |
   39|Horny Common, Sussex, 58.
     |
  123|Horrington, West, Somerset, 189.
     |
     |Horsea Island, Hants, 223.
     |
   36|=Horsham=, Sussex, 65. A borough, market town, and parish,
     |situated on the river Arun, containing 638 houses, and 3839
     |inhabitants. It is said to derive its name from Horsa, the brother
     |of Hengist the Saxon, by whom it is supposed to have been first
     |built. It is a borough by prescription, and returns two members to
     |parliament, which it has done ever since the reign of Edward the
     |First. The church is an ancient building, and it has a good county
     |gaol, and an established bank. The Assizes are frequently held
     |here, and its market on Saturday, is well supplied with poultry,
     |&c.
     |
   45|Horstead, Sussex, 59. A parish containing 88 houses, and 591
     |inhabitants.
     |
  134|Horton, Somerset, 168.
     |
  135|Horton, High, Somerset, 169.
     |
   69|Hothampton, Sussex, 41, 42.
     |
   80|Hounds Down Hill, Hants, 92.
     |
  123|Houndston, Somerset, 141.
     |
    9|=Hounslow=, Middlesex, 70, 174. A market town, situated on the
     |edge of the heath which bears its name, on a branch of the river
     |Coln, on which are some powder mills. On this heath are many
     |vestiges of ancient encampments, and also some newly erected
     |barracks for cavalry. Here, in 1686, James the Second encamped
     |after the suppression of the Duke of Monmouth’s rebellion.
     |
   10|Hounslow Heath, Middlesex, 70, 174. (_See Hounslow._)
     |
     |Hove, Sussex, 219. A parish containing 18 houses, and 101
     |inhabitants.
     |
   74|How Ford, Hants, 98.
     |
  112|Huddox Hill, Somerset, 188.
     |
   64|=Hungerford=, 181. A market town and parish, situated on the banks
     |of the Kennet, part in the county of Berks, and part in Wilts;
     |containing 383 houses, and 1987 inhabitants. The church is an
     |ancient building, it stands at the end of a pleasant walk, shaded
     |with high trees, in the western quarter of the town. A bugle horn
     |made of brass, and a drinking can, are here shown, both of which
     |were presented as confirmations of charters granted to this town
     |by John of Gaunt, Duke of Lancaster. The market is on Wednesday.
     |
   64|Hungerford Down, Berks, 181.
     |
   23|Huntercomb, Bucks, 175.
     |
   89|Hurcot, West, Wilts, 136.
     |
   67|Hursley, Hants, 85. A parish containing 201 houses, 1105
     |inhabitants.
     |
   38|Hurst Common, Surrey, 37.
     |
   47|Hurst Green, Sussex, 21.
     |
   25|Hurst Hill, Surrey, 48.
     |
     |
     |I.
     |
  249|Jenkins Barrow, Cornwall, 157.
     |
  185|Jews Bridge, Devon, 118.
     |
  120|=Ilchester=, Somerset, 167. A borough, market town, and parish,
     |containing 416 houses, and 1862 inhabitants, pleasantly situated
     |on the river Ivel, which is not navigable. It appears to have been
     |a strong fortified town in the time of the Romans, and at the
     |Norman Conquest was a city containing several churches; the
     |foundation of its walls are still perceivable near the river, and
     |_Yard Lane_ was formerly a ditch, which entirely surrounded the
     |town. The fosse way retains its name, and passes through the
     |principal street, and the pavement of the original ford across the
     |river, may be seen on the west side of the bridge, formed of flag
     |stones.
     |
     |The town at present consists of four streets, and it has a neat
     |church. It is a borough by prescription, returns two members to
     |parliament, and gives title of Earl to the family of Fox. The
     |celebrated Roger Bacon was born at this town. On King’s Moor horse
     |races are held, and the neighbourhood produces great quantities of
     |excellent grain. The market is on Wednesday.
     |
  132|=Ilminster=, Somerset, 168. A market town and parish, situated
     |near the river Ille, containing 377 houses, and 2160 inhabitants.
     |The church is a handsome building ornamented with a quadrangular
     |glazed tower. It contains a monument erected in the beginning of
     |the 17th century, to the memory of Nicholas Wadham and Dorothy his
     |wife, the founders of Wadham College, Oxford.
     |
     |Here is a free grammar school, founded by Edward the Sixth, with a
     |good salary, and a house for the head master, as also for his
     |assistant. In the centre of the town stands the market house and
     |shambles, where a market is held on Saturday.
     |
  110|Inn Wood, Somerset, 140.
     |
   51|John’s Cross, Sussex, 21.
     |
   16|John’s Hole, Kent, 3.
     |
   43|John’s, St., Common, Sussex, 50.
     |
   22|Iron Peartree Wells, Surrey, 56.
     |
   24|Irons Bottom, Surrey, 48.
     |
     |Isherton, Wilts, 207.
     |
     |Itchen, Hants, 221.
     |
  204|Ivy Bridge, Devon, 121. A populous little village, in a situation
     |particularly healthy and pleasant. Here are some paper and block
     |mills, and a neat chapel, erected in 1790.
     |
     |
     |K.
     |
   96|Keesley Down, Wilts, 163.
     |
   19|Kennel, Surrey, 55.
     |
  215|Kenner’s House, Cornwall, 152.
     |
   79|Kennet, East, Wilts, 183. A parish containing 19 houses, and 102
     |inhabitants.
     |
   79|Kennet, West, Wilts, 183, 198. (_Population included with East
     |Kennet._)
     |
    2|Kennington Common, Surrey, 52.
     |
    1|Kensington, Middlesex, 69. A parish and pleasant village,
     |containing 1433 houses, and 8556 inhabitants.
     |
    1|Kensington Gore, Middlesex, 69.
     |
  117|Kensington Place, Somerset, 203.
     |
  114|=Keynsham=, Somerset, 202. A market town and parish, situated on
     |the north side of the Avon, it consists principally of one street
     |a mile long; containing 278 houses, and 1591 inhabitants.
     |
     |The town is built upon a rock replete with fossil ammonitæ, having
     |a good stone bridge over the river Avon, leading to Gloucester,
     |and another over the river Chew. The church is an ancient Gothic
     |building, and it has a good market on Thursday.
     |
   38|Key Street, Kent, 6.
     |
  266|Kiggon Mill, Cornwall, 129.
     |
  250|Killegrew, Cornwall, 157.
     |
  271|Killiganoon, Cornwall, 129.
     |
  148|Kilmington, Devon, 113. A township in the parish of Axminster,
     |containing 84 houses, and 444 inhabitants.
     |
  103|Kilmington, Somerset, 172. A parish containing 104 houses, and 504
     |inhabitants.
     |
  103|Kilmington Down, Somerset, 172.
     |
   42|Kiln Down, Kent, 20.
     |
   31|Kiln Green, Berks, 177.
     |
   32|Kingfold, Sussex, 64.
     |
   13|King’s Arbour, Middlesex, 174.
     |
  102|King’s Down, Wilts, 200.
     |
  103|King’s Down Hill, Wilts, 186, 201.
     |
   44|King’s Marsh, Sussex, 34.
     |
  127|Kingston, Dorset, 110.
     |
   12|Kingston, Surrey, 24. A market town and parish, situated on the
     |banks of the Thames, over which it has a wooden bridge. It
     |contains 726 houses, and 4144 inhabitants.
     |
     |This town was either a royal residence or demesne, as early as the
     |union of the Saxon heptarchy; some of the Saxon kings were crowned
     |here, and close to the north side of the church is a large stone,
     |on which tradition says, they sat during the ceremony. The church
     |is a spacious handsome building, and the tower contains eight
     |bells. Here are held the Lent Assizes for the county. The market
     |is on Saturday.
     |
   93|Kingston, Lower, Hants, 94.
     |
     |Kingston by Sea, Sussex, 219. A parish containing 11 houses, and
     |77 inhabitants.
     |
  104|King’s Wood, Somerset, 172.
     |
   61|King’s Worthy, Hants, 77.
     |
   62|Kintbury, Berks, 181. A parish containing 282 houses, and 1430
     |inhabitants.
     |
   36|Kipping’s Cross, Kent, 19.
     |
  184|Knighton, Devon, 118.
     |
  184|Knighton Heathfield, Devon, 118.
     |
     |Knightsbridge, Middlesex, 69. The most remarkable building here is
     |St. George’s Hospital, which was formerly the seat of Lord
     |Lanesborough.
     |
     |Knooke, Wilts, 206. A hamlet containing 30 houses, and 194
     |inhabitants.
     |
  117|Knowl, Somerset, 203.
     |
   70|Knowl, Wilts, 182.
     |
   30|Knowl Hill, Berks, 176.
     |
   97|Knoyle, West, Wilts, 163. A hamlet containing 33 houses, and 184
     |inhabitants.
     |
     |
     |L.
     |
   36|Lady Cross, Surrey, 33, 37.
     |
  235|Lady Park, Cornwall, 125.
     |
  133|Lady’s Down, Somerset, 143.
     |
   93|Lagpond, Wilts, 137.
     |
   40|Lamberhurst, 20. A parish situated part in Kent and part in
     |Sussex; containing 89 houses, and 1057 inhabitants.
     |
   41|Lamberhurst Down, Sussex, 20.
     |
  105|Lamb Bridge, Somerset, 187, 201.
     |
     |Lancing, Sussex, 218. A parish containing 79 houses, and 451
     |inhabitants.
     |
   94|Lands End, Wilts, 185.
     |
     |Lands, Old, Sussex, 215.
     |
     |Langford, Little, Wilts, 207, A parish containing 5 houses, and 25
     |inhabitants.
     |
   19|Langley Broom, Bucks, 175. A parish containing 226 houses, and
     |1215 inhabitants.
     |
  253|Lannilley, Cornwall, 158.
     |
  236|Lanivet, Cornwall, 155. A parish containing 131 houses, and 513
     |inhabitants.
     |
  236|Lanivet Down, Cornwall, 155.
     |
  247|Lantivery, Cornwall, 126. A parish containing 134 houses, and 778
     |inhabitants.
     |
  241|Largin Castle, Cornwall, 125.
     |
  212|=Launceston=, Cornwall, 152. A borough, market town, and parish,
     |pleasantly situated on the side of a hill on the river Tamer,
     |containing 278 houses, and 1758 inhabitants. Reginald, Earl of
     |Cornwall, built a castle here, which is spoken of by Leland as one
     |of the strongest works in the kingdom. The tower is now made use
     |of as a prison.
     |
     |Launceston was made a free borough by Henry the Third, being
     |before composed of two other boroughs. The knights of the shire
     |are elected here, and the Winter Assizes are held at the Guildhall
     |in this town, the Summer Assizes being removed to Bodmin. It has
     |sent two members to parliament since the 23d of Edward the First.
     |The church was built in the reign of Henry the Eighth, on the side
     |of one of its walls is a fine figure of Mary Magdalen; most kinds
     |of provisions are plentiful and reasonable, but coals are very
     |dear. The markets are on Wednesday and Saturday.
     |
   98|Launceston Down, Dorset, 106.
     |
   58|Lavant, East, Sussex, 36. A parish containing 53 houses, and 274
     |inhabitants.
     |
   55|Laverstock, Hants, 100. A parish containing 17 houses, and 88
     |inhabitants.
     |
   50|Lavington Common, Sussex, 35.
     |
  235|Lawrence, St., Cornwall, 155.
     |
   71|Lawrence, St., Kent, 13. A parish containing 234 houses, and 1068
     |inhabitants.
     |
  120|Leachmoor Pond, Somerset, 189.
     |
   15|Leaden Cross, Surrey, 53.
     |
   18|Leatherhead, Surrey, 62. A parish, and formerly a market town,
     |containing 187 houses, and 1078 inhabitants. The town is situated
     |on the right bank of the river Mole, which having sunk into the
     |earth at Mickleham, at the foot of Box Hill, makes its appearance
     |again near this place; standing on a rising bank it is very dry
     |and pleasant, and has a brick bridge of 14 arches over the river.
     |The church is built in the form of a cross.
     |
   11|Leaves Green, Kent, 16.
     |
   62|Leckford Hutt, Hants, 133.
     |
  201|Lee, Higher, Devon, 121.
     |
  206|Lee Mill Bridge, Devon, 121.
     |
   99|Leigh Common, Dorset, 89.
     |
   63|Leominster, Sussex, 44. A parish containing 60 houses, and 357
     |inhabitants.
     |
  171|Leonard Moor, Devon, 195.
     |
   95|Leonard’s, St., Bridge, 89.
     |
  216|=Lestwithiel=, Cornwall, 126. A borough, market town, and parish,
     |containing 145 houses, and 825 inhabitants. It is situated on the
     |river Fowey, which was formerly navigable, but is now choaked up
     |with sand, and has a handsome church with a spire steeple. This
     |borough has returned two members to parliament ever since the 23d
     |of Edward the First. The market is on Friday.
     |
  234|Leveddon, Cornwall, 155.
     |
  204|Lew Cross, Devon, 151.
     |
   51|=Lewes=, Sussex, 59. A borough and market town, consisting of six
     |parishes, containing 945 houses, and 6221 inhabitants. This town
     |stands on the slope of a hill, on the banks of the river Ouse,
     |surrounded by higher hills, and was formerly encompassed with
     |walls. The gate and two towers of its ancient castle, built by
     |William, Earl of Warren, in the 11th century, still remain. Lewes
     |is a handsome town, and one of the largest and most populous in
     |the county. It formerly had twelve churches, which are now reduced
     |to six, including St. Thomas at Cliff, so called from its standing
     |under the high chalky cliffs at the outskirts of the town. From a
     |windmill in the neighbourhood, a fine view of the sea and the
     |circumjacent country is obtained. It is a borough by prescription,
     |but not incorporated, and has sent two members to parliament ever
     |since the 23d of Edward the First. There is an annual horse race
     |here for the King’s plate of 100 guineas. The market is on
     |Saturday.
     |
   52|Lewes Race Ground, Sussex, 60.
     |
    5|Lewisham, Kent, 15. This village has several good houses,
     |inhabited by rich citizens of the metropolis, who have retired
     |from business, or by those whose families wish to enjoy the
     |peaceful sweets of a country life. The church is an elegant modern
     |edifice, containing several good monuments by Banks and Flaxman.
     |
     |A branch of the river Ravensbourne runs through the village.
     |Lewisham contains 686 houses, and 4007 inhabitants.
     |
    5|Lewisham Bridge, Kent, 15.
     |
   85|Lichinton, Wilts, 136.
     |
  230|Lidcott, Cornwall, 155.
     |
  179|Lilly Bridge, Devon, 147.
     |
   47|Limbo, Sussex, 38.
     |
   38|Lindridge Causeway, Kent, 19.
     |
   46|Liphook, Hants, 29.
     |
   47|Liphook, Common, Sussex, 29.
     |
  214|Lipson, Devon, 122
     |
  223|Liscome, Cornwall, 123.
     |
  234|=Liskeard=, Cornwall, 125. A borough, market town, and parish,
     |containing 549 houses, and 2884 inhabitants, and having a
     |considerable manufacture of leather. The church is a large and
     |noble building. The town hall is erected on stone pillars, with a
     |turret on the top, and a clock with four dials. On the hills of
     |North Liskeard are many tin mines. This borough was incorporated
     |by Queen Elizabeth, and returns two members to parliament. It has
     |a very considerable market on Saturday.
     |
   29|Littlewick Green, Berks, 176.
     |
   65|Liverton, Berks, 181.
     |
   73|Lobcomb Corner, Wilts, 103, 134.
     |
  203|Lobhill, Devon, 151.
     |
   77|Lockeridge Dean, Wilts, 183. A hamlet containing 51 houses, and
     |194 inhabitants.
     |
   13|Locks Bottom, Kent, 16.
     |
   90|Lockswell Heath, Wilts, 185.
     |
   92|Lodge, Great, Wilts, 185.
     |
   93|Lodge, Little, Wilts, 185.
     |
  127|Lodmoor, Dorset, 171.
     |
   94|London Elm, Wilts, 137.
     |
  105|Lone Fleet, Dorset, 90. A tything to Pool, containing 120 houses,
     |and 504 inhabitants.
     |
   82|Long Barrow Cross, Wilts, 161.
     |
   33|Long Bottom, Hants, 80.
     |
  128|Long Breedy Hutt, Dorset, 110.
     |
  143|Long Bridge, 145.
     |
  102|Long Cross, Wilts, 164.
     |
   15|Longford, Middlesex, 174. This village is pleasantly situated on
     |the banks of the Colne, and is much frequented by anglers.
     |
  140|Longharris, Dorset, 112.
     |
  102|Long Lane End, Wilts, 172.
     |
  236|Looe Mills, Cornwall, 125.
     |
  128|Lopen, Somerset, 168. This village contains 71 houses, and 326
     |inhabitants.
     |
   18|Lords Wood, Kent, 17.
     |
     |Lothbury, Hants, 211.
     |
   44|Lotmore Green, Berks, 178.
     |
  109|Lotterford, Somerset, 165,
     |
   94|Louden, Wilts, 185.
     |
   51|Low Heath, Sussex, 43
     |
   28|Lowfield Heath, Surrey and Sussex, 48.
     |
   97|Ludwell, Wilts, 138.
     |
   66|Lydden, Kent, 9. A parish containing 21 houses, and 103
     |inhabitants.
     |
  209|Lyfton, Devon, 152.
     |
  209|Lyfton Down, Devon, 152.
     |
   91|=Lymington=, Hants, 93. A borough and market town, pleasantly
     |situated on the brow and declivity of a gentle hill, on a creek of
     |the English Channel, called Boldre Water. It consists principally
     |of one long street, containing 541 houses, and 2641 inhabitants.
     |Many of the houses are well built, commanding most delightful
     |prospects of the English Channel, and the Isle of Wight. There are
     |two sets of baths, one at the bottom of the town, the other about
     |half a mile from it, they are very convenient, and are much
     |frequented during the season. The borough is a corporation by
     |prescription, and sends two members to parliament. Market on
     |Saturday.
     |
     |About a mile distant are the traces of a Roman Camp, known by the
     |name of _Buckland Rings_, or _Castle Field_.
     |
   83|Lyndhurst, Hants, 92. A parish containing 170 houses, and 882
     |inhabitants.
     |
     |
     |M.
     |
   47|Macknade, Kent, 7.
     |
  122|Maiden Castle, Dorset, 171. This is one of the strongest and most
     |extensive camps in England, and is supposed to be of British
     |origin; its form is an irregular ellipsis, surrounded by treble
     |ditches and ramparts, the former are of prodigious depth, and the
     |latter extremely high and very steep. The entrances to the east
     |and west are strengthened by additional works; the ends of the
     |ramparts lapping over each other, and rendering the outlets very
     |winding and intricate. The inner rampart includes an area of about
     |forty acres, and is nearly a mile and a quarter in circumference.
     |Near the south side is the mouth of a cave, said to extend a
     |considerable way; though it is now choaked up and impassable. This
     |appears to have been a contrivance to obtain water, the river
     |flowing through the valley at the distance of about a quarter of a
     |mile. The ground rises gradually to the centre of the area, which
     |commands an extensive prospect.
     |
  168|Maiden Down, Devon, 195.
     |
   26|=Maidenhead=, Berks, 176. A market town, containing 167 houses,
     |and 792 inhabitants. It is pleasantly situated on the banks of the
     |Thames, over which is a very commodious bridge of 13 arches. The
     |principal trade of this town is in malt, meal, and timber. The
     |market is on Wednesday.
     |
   25|Maidenhead Bridge, 176.
     |
   28|Maidenhead Thicket, Berks, 176.
     |
     |Mansbridge, Hants, 212.
     |
   76|Manton, Wilts, 183.
     |
  110|Maperton, Somerset, 165. A parish containing 22 houses, and 171
     |inhabitants.
     |
   43|Maplederwell Hatch, Hants, 75.
     |
   19|Marams Court Hill, Kent, 17.
     |
   41|Maresfield, Sussex, 58. A parish containing 170 houses, and 960
     |inhabitants.
     |
   72|=Margate=, Kent, 12. A market town on the sea coast, pleasantly
     |seated on the north side of the Isle of Thanet, and a member of
     |the port of Dover; it contains 1291 houses, and 6126 inhabitants.
     |The principal improvements of Margate have taken place since 1787,
     |when an act of parliament was obtained to rebuild the pier with
     |stone, since which it has become a very fashionable resort for sea
     |bathing. From the increase of company, new buildings became
     |necessary for their accommodation, by which the town was
     |considerably enlarged and greatly improved. On that part next the
     |coast there are many commodious rooms, which are the morning
     |resort of the company, and whence they are driven by turns into
     |the sea, in bathing machines. There are also four marble salt
     |water baths, filled from the sea, which may be brought to any
     |temperature.
     |
     |The church of St. John stands about half a mile from the lower end
     |of the town; it is a large building of flint, rough cast,
     |consisting of three long low aisles, separated by pillars of
     |various forms. At the west end of the north aisle is a square
     |tower with a low spire, containing six bells. It has many
     |monuments of antiquity, with a good organ. Here is a general
     |sea-bathing infirmary, which was opened in 1796.
     |
     |Margate has every amusement common with other fashionable watering
     |places, having a neat theatre, assembly rooms, tea, card, and
     |billiard rooms, &c. &c.
     |
     |About a mile and a half from the town, stands the rural spot of
     |_Dandelion_, where are the remains of an ancient mansion and
     |fortification, once of great strength, and belonging to the family
     |of _Dandelion_. This place is now in great repute, and has
     |alcoves, a bowling green, a platform for dancing, an orchestra,
     |and every accommodation for company. Market on Wednesday and
     |Saturday.
     |
   74|Marks Barn, Wilts, 206.
     |
     |=Marlborough=, Wilts, 183. A borough and market town, consisting
     |of two parishes; containing 456 houses, and 2579 inhabitants. It
     |is situated on the banks of the river Kennet, and consists
     |principally of a broad street with piazzas along one side of it.
     |The churches, dedicated to St. Mary and St. Peter, have both
     |square towers and six bells in each. This town gave title to the
     |celebrated warrior, John Churchill, who was created Earl of
     |Marlborough, by William the Third, in 1689, and Duke of
     |Marlborough by Queen Anne; it has sent two members to parliament
     |since the 28th of Edward the First. The market is on Saturday.
     |
   70|Marlbrook Pond, Hants, 79.
     |
   58|Marsh Benham, Berks, 180.
     |
  211|Marsh Mill, Devon, 122.
     |
   10|Mason’s Hill, Kent, 16.
     |
  233|Maudlin, Cornwall, 125.
     |
   62|Maudlin, Sussex, 40, 216.
     |
  129|Mead, Somerset, 168.
     |
   99|Medleys, Wilts, 200.
     |
  128|=Melcomb Regis=, Dorset, 171. A borough and market town,
     |containing 423 houses, and 2350 inhabitants, situated at the mouth
     |of the river Wey, which separates it from Weymouth, over which
     |river there is a wooden bridge of seventeen arches. It has a good
     |market place and town hall, in which the members of the
     |Corporation of Weymouth attend public business.
     |
     |This borough has sent two members to parliament ever since the
     |reign of Edward the First. It is united to Weymouth as a sea port,
     |corporation, and market town. Market on Tuesday and Friday.
     |
   95|Melksham, Wilts, 200. A town and parish, containing 759 houses,
     |and 4030 inhabitants. Most of the houses in this town are well
     |built of free stone, but not regular. It has one parish church,
     |and three meeting houses for dissenters. Its chief manufacture is
     |broad cloth, and it has a market every other Thursday for cattle.
     |
   62|Meonstoke, Hants, 96. A parish containing 50 houses, and 289
     |inhabitants.
     |
   59|Meon, West, Hants, 96. A parish containing 83 houses, and 536
     |inhabitants.
     |
  100|=Mere=, Wilts, 164. A market town and parish, containing 457
     |houses, and 2211 inhabitants. It is a very straggling town,
     |indifferently built, and has a small cross, or market house, where
     |a market is held on Thursday. In the reign of Henry the Third it
     |was the lordship of Edmund, Earl of Cornwall, and had a castle
     |belonging to it, occupying the summit of an adjoining eminence,
     |very few traces of which now remain.
     |
     |Its principal manufacture is bed-ticking.
     |
   98|Mere Down, Wilts, 172.
     |
  219|Merrifield, Cornwall, 123.
     |
  187|Merrymeet, Devon, 149.
     |
   19|Merstham, Surrey, 54. This village contains 100 houses, and 481
     |inhabitants.
     |
    7|Merton, Surrey, 61. This village is seated on the river Wandle,
     |over which it has a bridge, remarkable for its arch, which is
     |turned with tiles, instead of brick or stone, and it is the
     |boundary of the three parishes of Mitcham, Wimbledon, and Merton.
     |The parish contains 147 houses, and 813 inhabitants. The church is
     |an old building of flint, and has been lately repaired and
     |ornamented.
     |
     |Merton was once celebrated for an abbey, founded in the reign of
     |Henry the First, in which abbey, at a parliament held in 1236, the
     |famous “Provisions of Merton,” (the most ancient body of laws
     |after _Magna Charta_), were enacted, and the Barons gave that
     |celebrated answer to the clergy, _Nolumus leges Angliæ mutare_.
     |
  256|Mewan, St., Cornwall, 127. A parish containing 130 houses, and 780
     |inhabitants.
     |
     |Michelgrove Woods, Sussex, 217.
     |
   20|Mickleham, Surrey, 62. A parish containing 53 houses, and 389
     |inhabitants. It is pleasantly seated at the foot of Box Hill, and
     |watered by the river Mole.
     |
   71|Middlecot, Hants, 160.
     |
     |Midford, Somerset, 204.
     |
   50|Midgham, Berks, 179. A village containing 43 houses, and 340
     |inhabitants.
     |
   49|=Midhurst=, Sussex, 34. A borough, market town, and parish,
     |containing 199 houses, and 1256 inhabitants, pleasantly seated on
     |the banks of the river Arun, its name in Saxon signifying
     |_Middlewood_. The town is in general well built, and is a borough
     |by prescription; it has sent two members to parliament ever since
     |the 4th of Edward the Third. The market is on Thursday.
     |
   59|Mid Lavant, Sussex, 36. A parish containing 182 houses, and 1073
     |inhabitants.
     |
   59|Mid Lavant Common, Sussex, 36.
     |
  112|=Milborne Port=, Somerset, 140. A borough and parish, containing
     |198 houses, and 953 inhabitants, pleasantly situated on a branch
     |of the river Parret. The church is a good building, with a square
     |tower, containing six bells, and a set of chimes. It is a borough
     |by prescription, and returns two members to parliament.
     |
  112|Milbourne St. Andrews, Dorset, 108. A parish containing 44 houses,
     |and 217 inhabitants.
     |
  113|Milbourne Wood, Dorset, 108.
     |
  180|Mile Stone Cross, Devon, 118.
     |
  136|Miles Cross, Dorset, 112.
     |
   35|Milford, Surrey, 27, 33, 37. (_Population included with
     |Godalming_)
     |
  245|Milham, Cornwall, 126.
     |
   48|Milland Church, Sussex, 29.
     |
   48|Milland Common, Sussex, 29.
     |
  145|Millbrook, Devon, 144.
     |
   76|Millbrook, Hants, 91, 220. A parish containing 250 houses, and
     |1304 inhabitants.
     |
  100|Mills Plat, Wilts, 186.
     |
   39|=Milton=, Kent, 6. A market town and parish, containing 321
     |houses, and 1746 inhabitants, situated at the head of a creek that
     |runs into the Swale, which separates the Isle of Sheppey from the
     |main land. It is a place of great antiquity, being once the
     |residence of the kings of Kent.
     |
     |The church is a neat building, situated at some distance from the
     |town; and contains several curious monuments.
     |
     |The town is tolerably well built, and has a port for barges: it is
     |particularly noted for the produce of delicious oysters, called
     |_Milton oysters_. The market is on Saturday.
     |
   96|Minety, Wilts, 185.
     |
   68|Minster Mills, Kent, 13.
     |
    8|Mitcham, Surrey, 46. The little river Wandle winds through this
     |parish, and is celebrated as a trout stream: on it are some snuff
     |mills, spinning mills, and printed calico manufactories. A
     |considerable quantity of medicinal plants are here propagated, and
     |it has an extensive common.
     |
     |The chancel of the church contains a monument to the memory of Sir
     |Ambrose Crowley, Alderman of London, who died in 1713, and is
     |celebrated in No. 75 of The Tatler, under the name of Sir Humphrey
     |Greenhat. In 1637 the church was destroyed by lightning, and ten
     |bells in part melted. Mitcham contains 604 houses, and 3466
     |inhabitants.
     |
  248|=Mitchell=, alias =St. Michael=, Cornwall, 157. A borough,
     |containing 30 houses, and about 160 inhabitants. It was a place of
     |note during the time of the Saxons, and was formerly called
     |_Modishole_. It has sent two members to parliament ever since the
     |6th of Edward the Sixth.
     |
   68|Mollin’s Cot, Hants, 159.
     |
  241|Molly Toms, Cornwall, 156.
     |
  180|Monkaton, Devon, 196.
     |
  147|Monkton, Devon, 170. A hamlet containing 18 houses, and 121
     |inhabitants.
     |
  122|Monkton, Dorset, 171.
     |
  101|Monkton Down, Dorset, 107.
     |
   66|Monkton, Kent, 12, 13. A parish containing 59 houses, and 300
     |inhabitants.
     |
  153|Monkton, Somerset, 193.
     |
   21|Montem, Bucks, 175. (_see Salt Hill_)
     |
  127|Moor, Somerset, 168.
     |
  152|Moorcot, Dorset, 114.
     |
   35|Moor Street, Kent, 5.
     |
    9|Morden, Surrey, 61. A parish containing 65 houses, and 512
     |inhabitants.
     |
    6|Morden College, Kent, 1. (_see Blackheath_)
     |
  139|Morecamblake, Dorset, 112.
     |
  234|Mount Brandy, Cornwall, 125.
     |
   19|Mount Lee, Surrey, 71.
     |
  154|Mount Pleasant, Devon, 114.
     |
   68|Mount Pleasant, Kent, 13.
     |
  130|Mount Pleasant, Somerset, 190.
     |
   36|Mousall, Surrey, 27.
     |
  173|Mucksbere, Devon, 195.
     |
   38|Murrell Green, Hants, 74.
     |
     |
     |N.
     |
  124|Nap Hill, Somerset, 189.
     |
  187|Narraway, Devon, 149.
     |
   91|Nash Hill, Wilts, 185.
     |
   63|Near, Berks, 181.
     |
  117|Nether Compton, Dorset, 141.
     |
     |Netley, Hants, 221. This village is only remarkable for the
     |remains of its once beautiful abbey, which are situated on the
     |gentle declivity of a hill, near Southampton Water. It was founded
     |by Henry the Third, about 1239, for Cistertian monks. The
     |venerable ruins of its church, and many of its apartments covered
     |with ivy, are generally visited by every traveller who resorts for
     |pleasure to Southampton.
     |
   80|Netley Marsh, Hants, 91.
     |
   56|=Newbury=, Berks, 180. A borough, market town, and parish,
     |containing 1028 houses, and 4898 inhabitants. The town is situated
     |in a valley on the banks of the Kennet: it has long been famed for
     |its extensive woollen manufacture, and in the reign of Henry the
     |Eighth, one John Winchcomb, better known by the name of Jack of
     |Newbury, kept 100 looms in his own house. At the expedition to
     |Flodden Field, he marched against the Scots with 100 of his men,
     |all armed and clothed at his own expense. He was also a
     |considerable benefactor to the building of its present handsome
     |church. The streets here are very spacious, and well paved, with a
     |convenient market place, in which is the Guildhall.
     |
     |Newbury was incorporated by Queen Elizabeth, and once sent members
     |to parliament, but was released therefrom on the petition of Jack
     |of Newbury.
     |
     |The town hall is ornamented with a beautiful picture of the
     |Surrender of Calais, painted by Price, Here are also several
     |charitable institutions. The market is on Thursday.
     |
   26|New Chapel Green, Surrey, 56.
     |
  140|Newhaven, Somerset, 169.
     |
  219|Newhay, Cornwall, 153.
     |
   37|Newington, Kent, 5. A parish containing 61 houses, and 429
     |inhabitants.
     |
    1|Newington, Surrey, 23, 45. This village extends about a mile in
     |length from Southwark to Kennington Common, towards which are many
     |well-built houses, the residence of opulent merchants and
     |tradesmen in the metropolis. It contains 2865 houses, and 14,847
     |inhabitants. The church was rebuilt on a larger scale, but on the
     |same inconvenient spot, by the side of the great road, in 1793. It
     |has in its church-yard a remarkable tomb, raised over the body of
     |William Allen, a young man killed by the firing of the soldiers at
     |the time that John Wilkes was in the King’s Bench Prison. There
     |are several singular inscriptions, and among the rest--_O earth,
     |cover not thou my blood!_ which has excited general attention.
     |
  249|Newlyn Down, Cornwall, 157.
     |
  110|Newton, St. Loe, Somerset, 202. A parish containing 49 houses, and
     |371 inhabitants.
     |
     |Newton, South, Wilts, 208. A parish containing 100 houses, and 541
     |inhabitants.
     |
  216|Nicholas, St., Island, Devon, 122. This island is situated on the
     |coast of Devonshire, in extent about three acres, lying before the
     |mouth of Plymouth Harbour; it is strong both by art and nature,
     |and on it is erected a battery, commanding the entrance to Hamoaze
     |and Catwater, with barracks and apartments for a commanding
     |officer.
     |
  125|Nine Stones, Dorset, 110. These stones are placed in a circular
     |form, and are from three to seven feet in height, supposed to be
     |the remains of a Druidical temple.
     |
   33|Nonsuch Green, Kent, 14.
     |
   80|Normanton Down, Wilts, 161.
     |
     |Norridge, Wilts, 206. (_Population included with Warminster_)
     |
     |Norridge Wood, Wilts, 206.
     |
   20|Northfleet, Kent, 3. A parish containing 291 houses, and 1910
     |inhabitants. It is situated on a high chalk hill, commanding a
     |very extensive view of the river Thames and the county of Essex.
     |The church is an extensive building, and contains several
     |monuments of the 14th century. On the north wall is a beautiful
     |alabaster monument to the memory of Dr. Brown, eminent for his
     |skill in natural history, and physician to Charles the Second.
     |Vast quantities of lime are burnt here, and extraneous fossils
     |have been dug up. In the flint (of which there are frequent
     |strata,) complete cockle shells filled with chalk are found, many
     |of which are of an extraordinary size.
     |
  120|Northover, Somerset, 167. A parish containing 12 houses, and 56
     |inhabitants.
     |
  231|Norton, Cornwall, 155.
     |
     |Norton Bovant, Wilts, 206. A parish containing 48 houses, and 264
     |inhabitants.
     |
  116|Norton Down, Somerset, 188.
     |
     |Norton, St. Philip, Somerset, 204. A parish containing 101 houses,
     |and 557 inhabitants.
     |
  101|Norwood, Wilts, 164.
     |
  126|Nottington, Dorset, 171. This place is famous for its medicinal
     |spring, which has been found extremely serviceable in cutaneous
     |and scorbutic disorders. It has a strong sulphurous smell, though
     |perfectly limpid, and greatly resembles the Moffatt water in
     |Scotland.
     |
   94|Notton, Wilts, 185.
     |
     |Nutbourn, Sussex, 215.
     |
   38|Nutley, Sussex, 58. (_Population included with Maresfield_)
     |
     |Nutshalling Street, Hants, 220.
     |
  107|Nyland, Somerset, 139.
     |
     |
     |O.
     |
  194|=Oakhampton=, Devon, 149. A borough, market town, and parish,
     |containing 227 houses, and 1440 inhabitants. It is pleasantly
     |situated in a valley near the source of the river Oak. The church
     |stands on a hill, one mile from the town; and in the market place
     |is an ancient chantry chapel. In the suburbs are the ruins of its
     |ancient castle, dismantled by Henry the Eighth, on the attainder
     |of Henry Courtney, Marquis of Exeter.
     |
     |It is a very ancient borough, and sends two members to parliament.
     |The market is on Saturday.
     |
   67|Oak Hill, Wilts, 182.
     |
  114|Oborne, Dorset, 140. A parish containing 26 houses, and 132
     |inhabitants.
     |
   20|Ockham Heath, Surrey, 25.
     |
  124|Odcomb, Somerset, 142. A parish containing 70 houses, and 428
     |inhabitants.
     |
  108|Odd Down, Somerset, 187.
     |
     |Offington, Sussex, 218.
     |
   84|Oldbury Camp, or Bratton Castle, Wilts, 184. This ancient
     |fortification is supposed to be of Roman origin, but there is
     |little doubt of its being subsequently occupied by the Danes and
     |Saxons. On two sides, where the acclivities of the hill are steep,
     |it is but slightly fortified, but on the other sides it is
     |defended by a double ditch and lofty valla.
     |
     |On the slope of the hill on which stands Oldbury Camp, is the
     |figure of a white horse in a trotting attitude, measuring 100 feet
     |from the hoof to the tip of the ear, and 100 feet from the nose to
     |the tail; it is formed by removing the turf from the surface of
     |the soil, which is chalk.
     |
     |This curious monument is asserted by Gough to be an undoubted
     |memorial of the victory obtained by Alfred over the Danes, near
     |Eddington, in the year 878, resembling that by which he
     |commemorated the victory he gained in Berkshire eight years
     |before, having then only acted as lieutenant to his brother
     |Ethelred.
     |
     |In the last battle he was not only commander in chief, but King of
     |England; his affairs were in a most critical situation, and the
     |Danes masters of a great part of his kingdom.
     |
     |This battle is supposed to have been fought near the village of
     |Eddingdon, or Eddington, where the Danish army was
     |encamped.--Alfred, with the utmost secresy, concealed his
     |intentions, and by rapid movements appeared in sight of their camp
     |before they had intelligence of his designs, immediately attacked
     |them, and gained a complete victory.
     |
     |The Danes, however, defended themselves with great bravery,
     |retreated to Bratton Castle, where they held out a siege of
     |fourteen days, and obtained terms of capitulation, more favourable
     |than they had reason to expect in their reduced situation.
     |
     |Gough supposes Bratton Castle to have been a fortification situate
     |on the pinnacle of White Horse Hill, and that the horse here seen
     |was formed to commemorate the victory of Alfred: while, on the
     |other hand, Mr. Wise, in his dissertation on the White Horse of
     |Berkshire, asserts, that this at Oldbury Camp is of modern
     |construction, and that it was made within the memory of persons
     |living at the time he visited it in 1742, by the inhabitants of
     |Westbury, who instituted a revel, or festival, thereupon.
     |
     |The writer of this article was also informed, when making his
     |survey, that it was executed at the expense and under the
     |direction of Dr. Alsop, of Calne, about thirty years ago, at a
     |revel then said to be held upon the spot.
     |
     |Camden, Gibson, and Gough, all agree in identifying Ethandun with
     |Eddington, near Bratton Castle, and conceive the latter to have
     |been the fortress to which the Danes retired after the battle.
     |Such also are the sentiments of Sir Richard Colt Hoare.
     |
     |To attempt a discussion of the merits of these several opinions
     |would occupy more space than our limits will admit. Amidst such
     |conflicting testimony it is difficult to decide, but the writer is
     |much inclined to adopt the opinion of the learned Baronet, that
     |the inhabitants of Westbury might but retrace the nearly
     |obliterated remains of an imperfect original, and in this he feels
     |warranted from the information himself received, as before
     |observed, upon the spot.
     |
     |In conclusion, he takes occasion to remark, that modern
     |information is so extremely contradictory as to merit very little
     |attention, and deems it most probable, that from the White Horse
     |having been the standard used by Alfred, and the majority agreeing
     |in fixing this as the spot to which the Danes retreated, it is not
     |unreasonable to suppose that it was originally executed in
     |commemoration of that victory.
     |
  205|Old Street Down, Devon, 151.
     |
     |Oliver’s Tomb, Sussex, 218, erected to the memory of Oliver, many
     |years the tenant of the adjacent mill, who, from partiality to the
     |spot while living, requested, when dead, he might be here
     |interred.
     |
   61|Ore, Sussex, 22. A parish containing 34 houses, and 243
     |inhabitants.
     |
   46|Ospringe, Kent, 7. A parish containing 109 houses, and 645
     |inhabitants. This was a Roman military station, and here King
     |Henry the Third founded an hospital called _Maison de Dieu_, some
     |slight remains of which are to be seen on the north side of the
     |street.
     |
   67|Otterbourn, Hants, 78. A township containing 70 houses, and 440
     |inhabitants.
     |
  118|Over Compton, Dorset, 141.
     |
     |Over Street, Wilts, 208.
     |
   53|Overton, Hants, 100. A parish containing 228 houses, and 1130
     |inhabitants. This was anciently a borough and market town, and
     |sent two members to parliament, but through neglect lost its
     |charter.
     |
     |An excellent trout stream rises in the parish of Ash, and flows
     |with such a current by this village, as to drive several mills;
     |one of them, a silk mill, is a very curious piece of machinery, in
     |the form of an oblong square; the rest are corn mills.
     |
     |The church is a neat building, standing on an eminence about a
     |quarter of a mile from the centre of the village.
     |
   78|Overton, Wilts, 183. A hamlet containing 33 houses, and 180
     |inhabitants.
     |
   77|Ower, Hants, 86.
     |
     |
     |P.
     |
   47|Padworth Mills, Berks, 179.
     |
  223|Palmer’s Bridge, Cornwall, 153.
     |
     |Palsgrove, Hants, 223.
     |
   49|Pangdean, Sussex, 51.
     |
   38|Park Wood, Surrey, 33.
     |
   36|Pastep Green, Kent, 19.
     |
   50|Patcham, Sussex, 51. A parish containing 30 houses, and 286
     |inhabitants.
     |
     |Patching Pond, Sussex, 218.
     |
   31|Pease Marsh, Surrey, 27.
     |
  137|Pedwell, High, Somerset, 191.
     |
  274|Pelyn, Cornwall, 126.
     |
   35|Pembury Green, Kent, 19.
     |
   33|Pembury Wood, Kent, 19.
     |
  241|Pendean, Cornwall, 156.
     |
  280|Pendennis Castle, Cornwall, 130. This is one of the largest
     |castles in the kingdom, standing on a high rock in the peninsula
     |of Pendennis, at the mouth of Falmouth Haven. It was built by
     |Henry the Eighth, but considerably improved by Queen Elizabeth.
     |
  119|Pen Mill, Somerset, 141.
     |
  228|Penerel’s Cross, Cornwall, 154.
     |
  254|Penmount, Cornwall, 158.
     |
  238|Pennant, Cornwall, 125, 154.
     |
  142|Penn Cross, Dorset, 112.
     |
  130|Pennymoor Pitt, Dorset, 139.
     |
  277|=Penryn=, Cornwall, 130. A borough and market town, containing 362
     |houses, and 2713 inhabitants. It is situated on an eminence, at
     |the mouth of the river called the King’s Road, which runs into
     |Falmouth Harbour.
     |
     |Here is a market house, town hall, &c. and the town is extremely
     |well watered, having streams running through the streets; on which
     |there are four corn mills, and one paper mill.
     |
     |It was anciently surrounded by a wall, and defended by a strong
     |castle.
     |
     |Penryn has sent members to parliament ever since the 1st of Queen
     |Mary. Its principal business is in the pilchard and Newfoundland
     |fisheries. The market days are on Wednesday, Friday, and Saturday.
     |
  248|Pensawn, Cornwall, 157.
     |
  278|Penshanly, Cornwall, 130.
     |
  229|Penstroad, Cornwall, 154.
     |
   66|Penton Mewsey, Hants, 159. A parish containing 38 houses, and 215
     |inhabitants.
     |
   93|Pentridge Down, Dorset, 105.
     |
   23|Pepbrook Bridge, Surrey, 63.
     |
  105|Pergin’s Island, Dorset, 90.
     |
  274|Perran Arworthal, Cornwall, 130. A township containing 125 houses,
     |and 884 inhabitants.
     |
  274|Perranwell, Cornwall, 130.
     |
  165|Perry Elm, Somerset, 194.
     |
   54|=Petersfield=, Hants, 30. A borough and market town, situated on
     |the river Loddon, containing 212 houses, and 1280 inhabitants.
     |This town was incorporated by Queen Elizabeth, and sends two
     |members to parliament. The market is on Saturday.
     |
  148|Petherton, North, Somerset, 192. A parish of considerable extent,
     |including seventeen villages, containing 436 houses, and 2346
     |inhabitants. It consists principally of one long street; many of
     |the houses are well built, and formerly it had a very considerable
     |corn market on Saturday.
     |
  127|=Petherton=, South, Somerset, 168. A market town and parish,
     |situated on the river Perrot, containing 346 houses, and 1674
     |inhabitants. It has a good stone bridge over the river. The
     |principal manufacture is that of dowlas, and the market is on
     |Thursday.
     |
   49|=Petworth=, Sussex, 38, 43. A market town and parish, situated
     |near the river Arun, containing 396 houses, and 2264 inhabitants.
     |It is chiefly remarkable for a magnificent seat of the Earl of
     |Egremont. (_see Index of Seats_).
     |
     |The church is a neat building, containing several monuments of the
     |Percy family, and the market on Saturday is generally well
     |supplied.
     |
   88|Picked Post, Hants, 88.
     |
   97|Pickwick, Wilts, 186.
     |
  116|Piddle Town, Dorset, 109. A parish containing 151 houses, and 909
     |inhabitants. Formerly it was much more considerable, and had a
     |market; the church is a very large and ancient building.
     |
  117|Piddletown Heath, Dorset, 109.
     |
   48|Piecomb, Sussex, 51.
     |
    7|Pigs Marsh, Surrey, 46.
     |
  102|Pimperne, Dorset, 107. A parish containing 62 houses, and 316
     |inhabitants. The church contains many vestiges of Saxon antiquity,
     |and the town appears to have been formerly much more considerable.
     |
  103|Pimperne Fields, Dorset, 107.
     |
   88|Pinhills, Wilts, 185.
     |
  183|Pitt, Devon, 118.
     |
   65|Pitt, Hants, 85.
     |
   65|Plant, Hants, 32.
     |
   46|Plashet Wood, Sussex, 59.
     |
  215|=Plymouth=, Devon, 122. A sea port, borough, and market town,
     |situated at the mouths of the Tamar and Plym, which here fall into
     |a bay of the Channel called _Plymouth Sound_. It contains 5732
     |houses, and 56,060 inhabitants.
     |
     |The mouth of the Tamar is called _Hamoaze_, and that of the Plym,
     |_Catwater_; and the sound is capable of receiving 1000 sail of
     |shipping. It is one of the most considerable sea ports in the
     |kingdom, and is defended by several strong batteries, and a
     |citadel, erected in the reign of Charles the Second, opposite to
     |Nicholas Island, which contains a large storehouse, and five
     |regular bastions.
     |
     |Plymouth has two parish churches, a large custom-house, a charity
     |school, several hospitals, exclusive of a general military and
     |marine hospital, and an extensive workhouse. The town is well
     |supplied with water, which was first brought from a place seven
     |miles distant, at the expense of Sir Francis Drake, a native of
     |this town.
     |
     |Between the town and the sea is a high hill, called the _Haw_,
     |having a delightful plain on the top, and affording a most
     |charming prospect.
     |
     |Opposite to Plymouth is Mount Edgecumbe, the charming seat of the
     |Earl of that title, (_see Index of Seats_). This mount, commanding
     |the town of Plymouth, was garrisoned for Charles the First, and
     |considerably annoyed the town. Between Mount Edgecumbe and
     |Plymouth are erected two baths, and near them an elegant assembly
     |and breakfasting room.
     |
     |That part of Plymouth called the Dock, which lies about a mile and
     |a half from the town, at the mouth of the Tamar, was first
     |designed as a wet and dry dock, in the reign of William the Third,
     |and to which two others have since been added, with all the
     |conveniencies necessary for building and repairing ships of war;
     |the docks are dug out of a mine of slate, and lined with Portland
     |stone.
     |
     |Near the docks are erected ranges of storehouses for the arms,
     |rigging, sails, &c. with houses for the various officers of the
     |different departments to live in. Here are also commodious
     |barracks, and so numerous are the shops, and the buildings have
     |within these few years so rapidly increased, that =Dock= (as it is
     |termed) is now as large as the town itself. There is also a neat
     |little theatre here.
     |
     |For accommodating the great intercourse and distance between the
     |extremities of the town, there are four-wheeled chaises drawn by
     |one horse for regular hire, similar to the Hackney coaches of the
     |metropolis.
     |
     |It returns two members to parliament, and is termed an admiralty
     |borough. The markets are on Monday, Thursday, and Saturday.
     |
     |At the entrance of Plymouth Sound lies a very large and dangerous
     |rock, called the _Edystone_, covered at high water, but at low
     |water bare. On the summit of this rock is erected a light-house,
     |80 feet high, built of Portland stone and granite.
     |
  216|Plymouth Dock, Devon, 122. (_see Plymouth_)
     |
     |Plymouth Sound, Devon, 122. (_see Plymouth_)
     |
  210|=Plympton Earle=, Devon, 122. A borough, market town, and parish,
     |containing 92 houses, and 715 inhabitants. It was formerly called
     |Plympton Thomas, out of respect to Thomas à Becket.
     |
     |The town consists of two irregular streets, and has a Guildhall,
     |supported on stone pillars, beneath which is held the corn market.
     |This is one of the stannary towns for stamping tin, and is a very
     |ancient borough; it sends two members to parliament. The market is
     |on Saturday, and there is also a market for all kinds of cattle
     |the second Wednesday in every month. The town is well supplied
     |with fish from the neighbouring sea-port towns almost every day.
     |
  210|Plympton, St. Mary, Devon, 122. A parish containing 245 houses,
     |and 1562 inhabitants.
     |
  202|Point Bridge, Devon, 151.
     |
  229|Polecat, Cornwall, 124.
     |
  251|Polglaze, Cornwall, 158.
     |
  248|Polharmon, Cornwall, 126.
     |
     |Poling, Sussex, 217. A village containing 23 houses, and 170
     |inhabitants.
     |
  217|Pollaphant, Cornwall, 153.
     |
  224|Polscove, Cornwall, 123.
     |
  183|Poltimore, Devon, 197. A parish containing 46 houses, and 250
     |inhabitants.
     |
  225|Polvathic, Cornwall, 124.
     |
  254|Polwhele, Cornwall, 158.
     |
     |Polygon, Hants, 220.
     |
   75|Pond’s Foot Hill, Hants, 86,
     |
  106|=Poole=, Dorset, 90. A sea-port, borough, and market town,
     |containing 1134 houses, and 4816 inhabitants.
     |
     |This town is about three quarters of a mile long, half a mile
     |broad, and consists of three or four considerable streets, running
     |nearly from north-east to south-west: it lies on the borders of a
     |very narrow dreary heath, being a peninsula, joined to the parish
     |of Lanford by a neck of land. It is of considerable antiquity,
     |having been an important port in the time of the Romans, and a
     |Roman military way may be still traced from hence to Wimbourn.
     |
     |The church, dedicated to St. James, was formerly a chapel of ease
     |to Lanford, but has since been considerably enlarged, and contains
     |several neat monuments.
     |
     |The harbour is considered the best and safest in the channel, as
     |the ground is every where soft, and water sufficient at spring
     |tides for vessels of sixteen feet draught to come up to the quay.
     |Market on Monday and Thursday.
     |
   70|Poor, Hants, 32.
     |
   52|Popham, Hants, 76. A parish containing 5 houses, and 48
     |inhabitants.
     |
   50|Popham Lane, Hants, 76.
     |
     |Porchester, Hants, 222. A parish containing 132 houses, and 917
     |inhabitants. It was anciently called _Port Peris_, and was a
     |sea-port before Portsmouth.
     |
     |Its ancient castle was erected to command the harbour, the walls
     |of which formed a square of 440 feet, containing an area of four
     |acres; they are six feet thick, and in many places 16 feet high,
     |having 13 towers, besides the keep, which has four. It is of very
     |great antiquity, but its age and founder are both unknown. This
     |castle is now private property, rented by the crown, and has been
     |appropriated to the purpose of confining prisoners of War. Towards
     |the south-east part of the area is the parish church, which is an
     |ancient fabric.
     |
     |Porchester Castle, Hants, 223. (_see Porchester_)
     |
  206|Portgate, Devon, 151.
     |
   66|Portsdown Hill, Hants, 32, 214, 223.
     |
   68|Portsea Gate and Turnpike, Hants, 32.
     |
     |Portslade, Sussex, 219. A parish containing 48 houses, and 284
     |inhabitants. This village has partly risen out of the ruins of the
     |parish of Aldrington, which the encroachments of the sea has
     |entirely destroyed, not a house remaining.
     |
   71|=Portsmouth=, Hants, 32, 98. A sea-port, borough, market town, and
     |parish, containing 7114 houses, and 40,567 inhabitants.
     |
     |This town was anciently defended by a wall of timber, covered with
     |earth, and with bastions and forts of hewn stone. But in the reign
     |of Queen Elizabeth it was strengthened by new works; at the
     |restoration of King Charles the Second great improvements were
     |made, by the establishment of new docks; and several forts were
     |strongly fortified in the modern manner, since which time each
     |succeeding monarch has made further improvements and additional
     |works, and it is now the most regular fortress in Britain, and is
     |reckoned almost impregnable by land as well as by sea.
     |
     |The dock yard, containing the warehouses for keeping all kinds of
     |military and naval stores, is the most complete in the world, and
     |possesses all the various manufactories necessary for supplying
     |its different naval equipments. The docks and yards, in short,
     |resemble a distinct town, there being particular rows of
     |dwellings, built at the public expense, for all the principal
     |officers who are under a separate government from the garrison.
     |
     |The streets of the town are mostly narrow and dirty, but always in
     |a bustle, the consequence of the town being wholly supported by
     |the fleets and armed vessels, which, during war, are constantly at
     |anchor here; and in peace it is the general rendezvous of the
     |India fleet.
     |
     |Close to the shore is the signal post, which is continually making
     |signals to the ships lying at Spithead, as well as the telegraph,
     |conveying intelligence and receiving orders from the Admiralty in
     |the course of eight minutes.
     |
     |The whole of the walls round the town are planted with cannon, and
     |on some of them are very pleasant walks, particularly on the east
     |side, and near the sea, commanding a beautiful prospect.
     |
     |The church, with its tower, cupola, and lantern, may pass as a
     |stately edifice, but the style of its architecture is not
     |remarkable for any beauty.
     |
     |Portsmouth sends two members to parliament, it has a port admiral,
     |and all the various officers of the revenue. On South-sea Beach
     |are several commodious bathing machines. The mouth of the harbour
     |is not so broad as the Thames at Westminster, and is defended on
     |the Gosport side by four forts and a strong platform of cannon.
     |The markets are on Thursday and Saturday, as well as a small one
     |on Tuesday; and a fair which continues fourteen days.
     |
   70|Portsmouth Common, Hants, 32.
     |
  257|Pothall, Cornwall, 128.
     |
   14|Potter’s Lane, Surrey, 47.
     |
   90|Poulner, Hants, 88.
     |
  210|Poulston, Devon, 152.
     |
  121|Poundbury, Dorset, 109. Poundbury Camp is an irregular
     |parallelogram in shape, surrounded by a vallum, which is very
     |lofty, but appears to have been discontinued on the north side, or
     |perhaps has been worn away: on the east side, on which was the
     |principal entrance, it appears to have been double. Another
     |entrance next the river was made with the greatest art, a narrow
     |path being drawn all along between the edge of the precipice and
     |the vallum; and beyond the camp, west, for a long way, a small
     |trench is cut upon the said edge, which seems designed to prevent
     |the ascent of cavalry. The breadth of the area is 147 paces, and
     |its length 378: towards the middle the ground is considerably
     |elevated, and near the south side is a barrow, which is imagined
     |to be Celtic, and extant before the camp was made.
     |
  103|Pound Close, Dorset, 107.
     |
  229|Pounds Cause, Cornwall, 154.
     |
   27|Povey Cross, Surrey, 48.
     |
   17|Pratt’s Bottom, Kent, 17.
     |
   75|Preshute, Wilts, 183. A parish containing 100 houses, and 496
     |inhabitants.
     |
  122|Preston, Somerset, 141. A parish containing 46 houses, and 260
     |inhabitants.
     |
   52|Preston, Sussex, 51. A parish containing 31 houses, and 222
     |inhabitants.
     |
     |Prinsted, Sussex, 215.
     |
  263|Probus, Cornwall, 128. A parish containing 194 houses, and 1013
     |inhabitants.
     |
  118|Puddimore, Somerset, 166. A parish containing 26 houses, and 154
     |inhabitants.
     |
  128|Puddle Town, Somerset, 142.
     |
   45|Puntfield, Berks, 178.
     |
   65|Purbrook, Hants, 32.
     |
    8|Putney Heath, Surrey, 24. On this heath stands an obelisk, erected
     |to commemorate an invention for securing buildings against fire.
     |
     |
     |Q.
     |
     |Quag-end, Hants, 213.
     |
   70|Quarley, Hants, 159. A parish containing 34 houses, and 134
     |inhabitants.
     |
   71|Quarley Hill, Hants, 160. On this hill are considerable traces of
     |a Roman encampment.
     |
   31|Quarry Hill, Kent, 14.
     |
  115|Queen’s Camel, Somerset, 166. A parish containing 94 houses, and
     |584 inhabitants. This was formerly a considerable town, having two
     |markets weekly, but was nearly destroyed by fire about two
     |centuries since.
     |
   80|Quemerford, Bridge, Wilts, 184.
     |
   83|Quidhampton, Wilts, 136, 208.
     |
     |
     |R.
     |
   42|Radfield, Kent, 6.
     |
  127|Radipole, Dorset, 171. A parish containing 26 houses, and 151
     |inhabitants.
     |
  114|Radstoke, Somerset, 188. A parish containing 100 houses, and 509
     |inhabitants.
     |
   89|Rag Lane, Wilts, 185.
     |
   34|Rainham, Kent, 5. A parish containing 119 houses, and 722
     |inhabitants. It consists of one principal street, and the church
     |contains several ancient monuments, particularly an elegant marble
     |statue of one of the Earls of Thanet.
     |
   33|Rainham, Mark, Kent, 5.
     |
   49|Rake, Sussex, 29.
     |
   72|=Ramsgate=, Kent, 13. This town is situated in a valley,
     |commanding a delightful prospect of the British Channel. Anciently
     |it was but a mean fishing village, but has acquired its present
     |respectability from its inhabitants, about a century back,
     |entering largely into the Russia and East country trade, and of
     |late years from its fashionable resort as a sea-bathing place. A
     |spacious new street has been erected for the accommodation of its
     |numerous summer visitors, and it has now become the rival of
     |Margate.
     |
     |The pier, built of Portland and Purbeck stone, at the expence of
     |several hundred thousand pounds, is the most magnificent structure
     |of the kind in the kingdom. It extends eight hundred feet into the
     |sea before it forms an angle, and is twenty-six feet broad at the
     |top. Its south front is a polygon, its angles five on a side, each
     |four hundred and fifty feet, with octagons of sixty feet at the
     |ends, and the entrance two hundred feet; this great work was began
     |in 1749. The harbour is capable of admitting vessels of five
     |hundred tons, and the pier forms the grand promenade.
     |
     |The bathing place lies in front of a long line of high chalky
     |rocks at the back of the pier, composed of a reddish sand, soft
     |and pleasant to the feet; it is furnished with machines in the
     |same manner as Margate. The rooms for the accommodation of the
     |bathers are commodious, and there are four warm salt water baths,
     |also a plunging and shower bath, with convenient rooms attached.
     |The assembly room is a neat fabric, near the harbour, with all the
     |various coffee, tea, billiard, card, &c. rooms annexed; the whole
     |is under the direction of the master of the ceremonies of Margate.
     |There are several good hotels, and numerous lodging houses, suited
     |to every sort of company. It has a handsome chapel erected in
     |1785. The town is well paved, lighted, and watched; and contains
     |919 houses, and 4221 inhabitants.
     |
     |In addition to the many improvements made at Ramsgate, a stone
     |light-house has been built on the west head, furnished with patent
     |lamps and reflectors. The markets are on Wednesday and Saturday.
     |
   41|Ramsnest Common, Surrey, 37.
     |
   75|Ranvill’s Gate, Hants, 86.
     |
   69|Ratlick, Hants, 85.
     |
  133|Rayn, St., Hill, Somerset, 143.
     |
   39|=Reading=, Berks, 178. A borough and market town, on the river
     |Kennet, which joins the Thames a little below the town. It
     |consists of three parishes, and contains 2032 houses, and 10,788
     |inhabitants. Each parish has its church, and there is a neat stone
     |bridge over the river.
     |
     |Reading sends two members to parliament; and here are held the
     |Lent Assizes, and the Epiphany County Sessions. The streets are
     |paved, many of them are wide, and contain some handsome houses.
     |Its principal manufactures are sacking, sail-cloth, blankets,
     |ribbons, and pins.
     |
     |On Bullmarsh Heath there are annual horse races, the third
     |Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday, in August. Here is also a small
     |theatre. The principal market days are on Saturday, for corn,
     |cattle, and provisions; and on Wednesday, for provisions, poultry,
     |fruit, vegetables, &c.
     |
   77|Redbridge, Hants, 91.
     |
   90|Red Hill, Wilts, 185.
     |
  108|Redlynch, Somerset, 173.
     |
   93|Red Stocks, Wilts, 199.
     |
  237|Redtye, Cornwall, 156.
     |
     |Rewell Wood, The, Sussex, 217.
     |
   17|Richmore Hill, Kent, 17.
     |
   13|Riddles Down, Surrey, 55.
     |
  123|Ridge Way, Dorset, 171.
     |
   91|Ridge Wood, Great, Wilts, 163.
     |
  210|Ridgway, Devon, 122.
     |
   91|=Ringwood=, Hants, 88. A market town and parish, containing 678
     |houses, and 3269 inhabitants, situated on the east side of the
     |river Avon. Many of the houses and the church are well built. This
     |town has long been celebrated for the excellence of its ale, of
     |which considerable quantities are exported.
     |
     |The neighbouring meadows are frequently overflowed by the several
     |streams into which the river is here divided. The market is on
     |Wednesday.
     |
   23|Ripley, Surrey, 26. This is a handsome little village, and has a
     |neat chapel.
     |
   22|Riverhead, Kent, 17. This village takes its name from the head of
     |the river Darent in the neighbourhood. It contains 129 houses, and
     |750 inhabitants.
     |
   25|River Hill, Kent, 18.
     |
  239|Roach Down, Cornwall, 156.
     |
   50|Robertsbridge, Sussex, 21.
     |
   29|ROCHESTER, Kent, 4. A city containing three parishes, 1532 houses,
     |and 9070 inhabitants, situated on an angle of the river Medway. A
     |church was first erected here about the year 600, by Ethelbert,
     |King of Kent. The present steeple was built about the year 1749.
     |On the north side of the cathedral stands a tower or castle,
     |supposed to have been erected by bishop Gundulph, whose name it
     |bears; it was originally sixty feet high, but is now much reduced:
     |the walls are six feet thick, and enclose an area of twenty feet
     |square.
     |
     |Rochester has a stone bridge over the Medway, of eleven arches,
     |the largest being about forty feet wide. The castle is so lofty
     |that it may be seen at the distance of thirty miles; several
     |attempts have been made to pull it down, but it was found too
     |durable to pay for the expence of rescaling the stones.
     |
     |Rochester and Chatham are connected by a long row of buildings on
     |a gentle eminence, called the Bank. In the cemetery, on the north
     |side of the cathedral, is the church belonging to the parish of
     |St. Nicholas. The present fabric was erected about the year 1620.
     |It is a very substantial building, the walls being of great
     |thickness, and supported on all sides by buttresses; it consists
     |of a nave and two side aisles, which are separated by two ranges
     |of lofty columns, from which spring the arches supporting the
     |roof. The episcopal palace is at Bromley, no bishop having resided
     |here since the Reformation. The town hall, erected in 1687, is a
     |handsome structure: the clock-house was built in 1686, at the
     |expence of Sir Cloudesley Shovel, who also gave the clock; it has
     |been subsequently repaired and beautified at the city’s expence.
     |The main street is wide and well paved. This city sends two
     |members to parliament, who are elected by the freemen at large.
     |The market is on Friday.
     |
  165|Rockbere, Devon, 116. A parish containing 78 houses, and 419
     |inhabitants.
     |
  164|Rockwell Green, Somerset, 194.
     |
   39|Rodd Lane, Surrey, 28.
     |
     |Roe Ashes, Hants, 213.
     |
   73|=Romsey=, Hants, 86, 211, 220. A market town and parish,
     |containing 933 houses, and 4297 inhabitants; situated on the river
     |Test, which falls into Southampton bay; and the canal, from
     |Southampton to Andover, passes through the town.
     |
     |The church is a noble edifice, built in the form of a cross, and
     |is arched with stone of beautiful Saxon architecture; it contains
     |several curious and ancient monuments; but the most singular
     |curiosity is an apple tree growing on the leads of the roof, which
     |produces good fruit: the origin of this tree is not remembered by
     |the oldest inhabitant.
     |
     |The principal trade of this town is in the manufacture of sacking
     |and paper. The market is on Saturday.
     |
   76|Romsey Common, Hants, 86.
     |
   57|Rooks Hill, Sussex, 36.
     |
   55|Ropley Dean, Hants, 83.
     |
   53|Ropley Stoke, Hants, 83.
     |
  254|Rosedale, Cornwall, 158.
     |
  237|Rosewarick, Cornwall, 156.
     |
   87|Roundaway, Wilts, 198.
     |
  131|Roundham, Somerset, 143.
     |
  131|Roundham Common, Somerset, 143.
     |
   90|Rowd, Wilts, 199, a parish containing 178 houses, and 796
     |inhabitants.
     |
   99|Rudley, Wilts, 186.
     |
   99|Rudley Firs, Wilts, 186.
     |
   82|Rufus’s Stone, Hants, 87. This pillar was erected by the late Lord
     |Delawar, in commemoration of the fatal catastrophe of King William
     |the Second, surnamed Rufus. It consists of a plain triangular
     |stone, not more than six feet high, surmounted with a ball, and
     |charged with inscriptions.
     |
   78|Rumbridge, Hants, 91, 92.
     |
   53|Rumsden Bottom, Hants, 95.
     |
  159|Rumwell, Somerset, 194.
     |
   33|Ruscombe, Wilts, 177.
     |
  138|Rush Moor, Somerset, 169.
     |
    6|Rushy Green, Kent, 15.
     |
    4|Rushy Green, Surrey, 52.
     |
  243|Ruthvos, Cornwall, 156.
     |
  243|Rye Downs, Cornwall, 126.
     |
   21|=Ryegate=, Surrey, 47, 54. A borough and market town, consisting
     |of two well built streets, containing 407 houses, and 2246
     |inhabitants. It is situated in a pleasant valley called Holmsdale,
     |and its name is supposed to have been derived from a Saxon word
     |signifying the course of a river, it being seated on a branch of
     |the Mole. A gate and some small remains are still to be seen of
     |_Holms Castle_, particularly a long vault with a large room at the
     |end, in which the Barons, who took up arms against King John, are
     |said to have had their private meetings, especially the evening
     |preceding the general congress at Runny Mead: which has rendered
     |this place an object of curiosity.
     |
     |Ryegate has sent members to parliament ever since the reign of
     |Edward the First.
     |
     |The neighbourhood abounds with fullers earth, and medicinal
     |springs. Market on Tuesday, besides a monthly one on Wednesday.
     |
   19|Ryegate Hill, Surrey, 47.
     |
     |
     |S.
     |
   52|Sages Cross, Berks, 179.
     |
   81|SALISBURY, Wilts, 104, 136, 209. A city containing 1575 houses,
     |and 8243 inhabitants. It was first built on a hill, a situation
     |chosen by the Britons. The original cathedral was finished in the
     |most splendid manner by bishop Roger, in the reign of King
     |Stephen, but the bishop’s castle being seized and garrisoned by
     |the king, the bishops and canons resolved to remove to a spot
     |where they would be less disturbed; and the present site of the
     |cathedral was chosen by bishop Poore, in the reign of Henry the
     |Third. The church was began in 1220, and finished in six years.
     |The body of the building is supported by ten pointed arches on
     |each side, resting on clusters of the lightest pillars, each
     |transept has three such arches, forming as many chapels, and the
     |choir has seven arches. The chapter house is an octagonal
     |building, with a clustered pillar in the middle, the frieze all
     |round, under the windows, has reliefs of scripture history in
     |tolerable preservation. The cloister on the south is the largest
     |and most magnificent in England. The west front and buttresses of
     |the cathedral all round have been filled with statues. In the
     |nave, choir, and transepts, are many handsome and ancient
     |monuments of the earls and bishops of Salisbury. The whole
     |cathedral has of late years undergone a thorough repair, and
     |received many improvements. The east window, which is twenty-three
     |feet in height, is composed of beautiful painted glass; the
     |windows on each side are painted in mosaic, as well as those on
     |the north and south sides of what was called the Lady Chapel. This
     |cathedral is the most elegant and regular Gothic structure in the
     |kingdom, and its spire, which is the loftiest in England, is 410
     |feet high.
     |
     |The church of St. Thomas was built by bishop Bingham, as a chapel
     |of ease to the cathedral, and contains several handsome monuments;
     |it is ornamented with a well adorned tower, ninety feet high to
     |the top of the stone work, the finishing above being of wood
     |covered with lead. In the tower are eight bells, with a set of
     |chimes. On the east side of the tower is a dial near ten feet
     |square, and on the south side are two figures in niches, of Thomas
     |à Becket, and the Virgin Mary with our Saviour in her arms.
     |
     |The market place is very extensive, being a handsome open square,
     |in the south-east corner of which stands the council house, a
     |magnificent structure, occupying the site of the old Guildhall; it
     |was erected at the expence of the Earl of Radnor, and completed in
     |1795. It is a square building of white brick, with a grand Doric
     |portico at the entrance to the two courts of law on the west side,
     |and a large bow window projecting from the great room on the east.
     |The principal entrance is on the north, with a flight of steps
     |leading to the door through a noble façade, consisting of four
     |Doric columns; the whole building is surrounded by a rich cornice,
     |and the angles of each front are ornamented with handsome rustic
     |work in stone. In the different apartments contained in this
     |building all the public business of the city is transacted.
     |
     |Salisbury was first incorporated by Henry the Third, and increased
     |so much after the desertion of Old Sarum, the building of the
     |cathedral, and the turning the western road through it by a grant
     |from Edward the Third, that it soon became one of the most
     |thriving cities in England. It has a considerable manufacture of
     |flannels, and the cloth called Salisbury whites, and some traffic
     |in cutlery. The streets are in general spacious, and built at
     |right angles. Four rivers meet near the city, and the waters of
     |three of them run through the streets in canals lined with brick.
     |There are no vaults in any of the churches, nor any cellars in the
     |town, the soil being so moist that the water rises up in the
     |graves dug in the cathedral.
     |
     |Salisbury sends two members to parliament. There is a concert
     |every other Thursday during the winter, and once a month during
     |the summer, well supported, and at which all strangers are
     |admitted gratis: there is also an assembly every other Thursday
     |during the winter, and a neat little theatre.
     |
     |Here are three charity schools, in which 170 children are taught
     |and clothed.
     |
     |The races are commonly held in the month of August, and continue
     |three days, being generally well attended. The markets are on
     |Tuesday and Saturday.
     |
  112|Saltford, Somerset, 202. A parish containing 54 houses, and 223
     |inhabitants.
     |
   21|Salt Hill, Bucks, 175. This hamlet is remarkable for its fine
     |situation, and for being the spot to which the scholars of Eton
     |make their procession triennially, called the _Montem_, when a
     |public collection is made from the company for the benefit of the
     |captain of the school, who is generally elected a member of King’s
     |College, Cambridge. This collection often amounts to £1000.
     |
     |Salts, New, Sussex, 219.
     |
     |Salvington, Sussex, 218.
     |
     |Sarisbury Green, Hants, 221.
     |
   64|Sarre, Kent, 12. This village was once a place of some repute, and
     |had anciently a haven, where there is now only a small brook.
     |
   71|Savernake Forest, Wilts, 182. This forest is twelve miles in
     |circumference, plentifully stocked with deer, and rendered very
     |pleasant by the many delightful walks and vistas cut through the
     |coppices and woods with which it abounds.
     |
     |Scratchbury Camp, Wilts, 206. This fine encampment comprehends an
     |area of forty acres, enclosed with a single ditch and rampart,
     |1846 yards in circuit, having three entrances; and is supposed to
     |be of British origin, from the remains of antiquity found within
     |its precinct.
     |
  101|Search, Wilts, 172.
     |
   92|Seend, Wilts, 199. A township containing 169 houses, and 976
     |inhabitants.
     |
   92|Sells Green, Wilts, 199.
     |
   88|Setley Plain, Hants, 93.
     |
   23|=Sevenoaks=, Kent, 18. A market town and parish, containing 358
     |houses, and 1922 inhabitants. It is supposed to have derived its
     |name from seven remarkable oaks which stood near it when first
     |built. The town is well built, and has a good free grammar school.
     |The market is on Saturday.
     |
   25|Sevenoaks Common, Kent, 18.
     |
    8|Severndroog Castle, Kent, 1, is situated on the top of Shooter’s
     |Hill, and may be seen at a great distance from almost every part
     |of the adjacent country. It was built by Lady James, to
     |commemorate the reduction of Severndroog, in 1756, a strong fort,
     |which belonged to Angria the pirate, on an island near Bombay.
     |This structure is of a triangular form, with turrets at each
     |angle. From the top of this tower a most delightful view of the
     |surrounding country is obtained, including the metropolis, the
     |shipping on the river Thames, and the long range of the Surrey
     |hills, the top of the building being 482 feet above the level of
     |the sea.
     |
  129|Sevilles, Somerset, 142.
     |
  129|Sevington, St. Mary, Somerset, 168.
     |
  129|Sevington, St. Michael, Somerset, 168.
     |
   58|Sewards Bridge, Hants, 84.
     |
  100|=Shaftesbury=, Dorset, 138. A borough and market town, consisting
     |of three parishes, containing 589 houses, and 2635 inhabitants. It
     |is situated on a hill, supposed by Camden to have been founded by
     |Alfred, and is recorded to have been a populous city, containing
     |twelve churches, before the Conquest, only three of which now
     |remain, none of them retaining any thing worthy of note. The
     |houses are tolerably well built; and many of them of free-stone.
     |In the corn market is a neat town hall, in which the Quarter
     |Sessions are held. Water here is extremely scarce.
     |
     |This borough has returned two members to parliament since the
     |reign of Henry the Third, except during the reigns of Henry the
     |Seventh, Eighth, and Edward the Sixth. The chief manufacture of
     |the town is that of shirt buttons, which are mostly made by women
     |and children. The market is on Saturday, and is well supplied with
     |all kinds of provision.
     |
  137|Shapwick, Somerset, 191. A parish containing 79 houses, and 408
     |inhabitants.
     |
  102|Shave, Wilts, 172.
     |
   56|Shaw, Berks, 180. A parish containing 96 houses, and 422
     |inhabitants.
     |
   97|Shaw, Wilts, 200.
     |
   97|Shaw Hill, Wilts, 200.
     |
   53|Sheet Bridge, Hants, 30.
     |
   84|Shepherds Shore, Wilts, 198.
     |
  115|=Sherborne=, Dorset, 140. A market town and parish, containing 597
     |houses, and 3370 inhabitants. It was anciently a bishopric, but in
     |the 11th century, the see being removed to Salisbury, the
     |cathedral was converted into an abbey. It was originally a noble
     |structure, but, in the reign of Henry the Seventh, a quarrel
     |happening between the monks and inhabitants, the latter set fire
     |to the building, and great part of it was burned down. At the
     |dissolution of monasteries it was made parochial, and is now the
     |finest parish church in the west of England. The inside is
     |beautifully decorated, and contains many Saxon monuments of kings
     |and nobility.
     |
     |The town is pleasantly situated on the declivity of a hill, and is
     |divided into two parts, called Sherborne and Castleton, by the
     |river Ivel: that part called _Castleton_ had a strong castle
     |erected by Roger, third bishop of Salisbury, which in the civil
     |wars of Charles the First, was the first castle besieged by the
     |parliament forces, and the last that held out for that prince.
     |Only the ruins of this castle are now to be seen. The markets are
     |on Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday, and are well supplied.
     |
  102|Sherborne Causeway, Dorset, 139.
     |
     |Sherfield, English, Hants, 210. A parish containing 66 houses, and
     |324 inhabitants.
     |
     |Sherfield, Hatchet, Hants, 210.
     |
   68|Sherrill Heath, Hants, 97, 213.
     |
     |Sherrington, Wilts, 207. A parish containing 209 houses, and 134
     |inhabitants.
     |
  223|Sheviock, Cornwall, 123. A parish containing 76 houses, and 409
     |inhabitants.
     |
     |Shidfield, Hants, 213.
     |
  175|Shillingford, Devon, 117. A parish containing 12 houses, and 71
     |inhabitants.
     |
   42|Shingley Wood, Kent, 20.
     |
  132|Shipton Beacon, Dorset, 111.
     |
     |Shirley, Hants, 220.
     |
     |Shoalford, Somerset, 205.
     |
     |Shoot Ash Hill, Hants, 210.
     |
     |Shoot End, Wilts, 209.
     |
    8|Shooters Hill, Kent, 2. This hill is supposed to have derived its
     |name from the exercise of archery carried on in the neighbouring
     |woods in former times. On the summit of the hill, which commands a
     |most extensive prospect, are some pleasant houses. It was formerly
     |noted for robberies, till the road was widened, and much of the
     |coppice wood cut down. On the right of the road stands a
     |triangular tower. (_See Severndroog Castle._)
     |
     |=Shoreham, New=, Sussex, 219. A sea-port, borough, and market
     |town, on the river Adur, containing 168 houses, and 770
     |inhabitants.
     |
     |The town lies about a mile within the haven, singularly built, in
     |the centre of which is the market house, standing on Doric
     |pillars. The church is an extensive building, and was formerly
     |collegiate; of late it has been repaired, and greatly beautified.
     |Although it is only a tide haven, yet as it is the best upon the
     |coast, vessels of considerable burthen come into it. Beyond the
     |town is a timber bridge across the river, leading to Arundel and
     |Chichester. Here are also military barracks. The town is a borough
     |by prescription, and has sent members to parliament ever since the
     |year 1298.
     |
     |Shoreham has a considerable trade in ship-building, and is noted
     |for the excellence of its oysters. The market is on Saturday.
     |
     |Shoreham, Old, Sussex, 219. A parish containing 48 houses, and 247
     |inhabitants.
     |
   78|Shorne Hill Common, Hants, 86.
     |
   71|Shortenden, Kent, 12.
     |
  176|Show Thorn, Devon, 147.
     |
   64|Shripney, Sussex, 42.
     |
   22|Shrubs Hill, Surrey, 72.
     |
   96|Shurnell, Wilts, 200.
     |
  149|Shute Hill, Devon, 113.
     |
   80|Silbury Hill, Wilts, 183, 198. The remains of a stupendous Roman
     |barrow, it rises 170 feet in perpendicular height, and its form is
     |the frustrum of a cone, its diameter at the top being 105 feet,
     |and at the bottom 500. In digging through the centre of this hill,
     |in 1777, nothing was found but a rotten post, and a rusty knife.
     |
   48|Silver Hill, Sussex, 21. A strong military post, commanding a most
     |extensive view of the country.
     |
     |Silvers Lake Bridge, Hants, 213.
     |
  136|Simondsbury, Dorset, 112.
     |
   55|Singleton, Sussex, 35. A parish containing 74 houses, and 445
     |inhabitants.
     |
   54|Singleton Wood, Sussex, 35.
     |
   14|Sipson Green, Middlesex, 174.
     |
   40|Sittingbourn, Kent, 6. This village, (which was formerly a market
     |town) consists of one long street, containing 200 houses, and 1347
     |inhabitants. The church is a large and handsome building, in which
     |are many ancient monuments.
     |
   41|Skewers, Hants, 74.
     |
     |Slindon Common, Sussex, 216.
     |
   20|Slough, Bucks, 175.
     |
   38|Slough Green, Sussex, 50.
     |
   20|Slough, New, Bucks, 175.
     |
  117|Slow Court, Somerset, 166.
     |
     |Smallbrook, Wilts, 206.
     |
    8|Smallbury Green, Middlesex, 70.
     |
  207|Smithalee, Devon, 121.
     |
   65|Smitham, Berks, 181.
     |
   12|Smitham Bottom, Surrey, 53.
     |
  139|Snow Down, Somerset, 145.
     |
  121|Sock Dinnis, Somerset, 167.
     |
     |Sompting, Sussex, 218.
     |
   35|Sonning, Berks, 177. A parish containing 187 houses, and 1111
     |inhabitants.
     |
   97|Sopley, Hants, 94. A parish containing 165 houses, and 840
     |inhabitants.
     |
  197|Sourton Down, Devon, 150.
     |
   75|=Southampton=, Hants, 79, 91, 221. A borough town, consisting of
     |seven parishes, (including Stoneham,) situated at the union of the
     |rivers Test and Itchen, which form Southampton Bay. It contains
     |1669 houses, and 9617 inhabitants; many of the streets are
     |handsome and well built. The High-street, terminating at the Quay,
     |much resembles, in width and beauty, the High-street of Oxford,
     |and has a charming view of the river and the New Forest, and the
     |shops may vie with any in the metropolis. The town, (except the
     |eastern part) is well paved and lighted, and supplied with
     |excellent water.
     |
     |The approach to the town from the London road is exceedingly
     |striking, from the beautiful view of Southampton Bay, the Isle of
     |Wight, and the scenery of the New Forest, elegant seats and rows
     |of trees line the road on both sides; and on entering the town by
     |one of its more fashionable streets, the view is farther
     |heightened by that venerable remain of antiquity, the Bargate. The
     |north front is a semi-octagon, flanked with two semicircular
     |turrets, and crowned with large and handsome open machicolations;
     |above the arch of entrance, on a row of sunk pannels, is a shield
     |of relief, charged with the arms of England, Scotland, Paulet,
     |Windham, &c. The greater part is supposed to have been erected in
     |the reign of Edward the Third, the front towards the High Street
     |is modern and plain, and has a statue of Queen Anne in the central
     |niche. Over the arches of the two foot and carriage ways is a
     |town-hall and grand jury-room. Two lions, cast in lead, guard the
     |entrance of the Bargate, besides which there are two gigantic
     |figures of _Ascupart_ and his renowned conqueror, _Sir Bevis of
     |Southampton_.
     |
     |The walls with which the town was anciently surrounded are in many
     |places quite destroyed, but in others they still present a
     |venerable appearance; they were defended by towers at different
     |intervals, several of which still remain. The circuit of the
     |ancient walls is computed to have been about a mile and a quarter,
     |but the whole town cannot be less than three miles round at
     |present.
     |
     |The castle stands in the south part of the town, and seems to have
     |been of a semicircular form, of which the town wall towards the
     |sea, formed the diameter. The keep stood on a high artificial
     |mount, and from its ruins a small round tower has been
     |constructed, from whence there is a delightful prospect. It is
     |supposed to have been of Saxon origin. The castle is now the
     |property of the Marquis of Lansdown, of which has been formed, by
     |considerable additions, a very commodious mansion.
     |
     |Southampton contains five parish churches, these are for the most
     |part handsome edifices.
     |
     |Near the west quay is a range of convenient baths, in which the
     |water is changed every tide; here is also a commodious warm bath:
     |further towards the channel is another suit of convenient and well
     |frequented baths, and several bathing machines have been erected
     |at the Cross-house near Itchen Ferry.
     |
     |At the bottom of Orchard Street, without the Bargate, is a spring
     |of the nature of Tunbridge Wells, and used with effect for the
     |same complaints. The public rooms are situated near the baths, and
     |command a delightful prospect. Here is also a capacious and
     |elegant theatre. The town has several well furnished libraries,
     |and three respectable banks.
     |
     |About half a mile from the Bargate stand the barracks, enclosing
     |an area of two acres.
     |
     |This town was made a borough by Henry the Second, and by King John
     |a county of itself; it returns two members to parliament, and has
     |a market on Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday.
     |
   33|Southborough, Kent, 14.
     |
  143|South Common, Dorset, 144.
     |
   41|Southcot, Berks, 178.
     |
    7|Southend, Kent, 16.
     |
   38|Southwater, Sussex, 65.
     |
  128|Southway, Somerset, 190.
     |
     |Southwick, Hants, 213. A village containing 109 houses, and 569
     |inhabitants.
     |
     |Southwick, Sussex, 219. A parish containing 34 houses, and 271
     |inhabitants.
     |
   95|Spa, Wilts, 199. In the summer of 1814, a medicinal spring was
     |discovered here, the waters of which are said to resemble those of
     |Cheltenham.
     |
  114|Sparkford, Somerset, 166. A parish containing 44 houses, and 239
     |inhabitants.
     |
     |Sparsholt, Hants, 211.
     |
   57|Speen, Berks, 180. A parish containing 71 houses, and 408
     |inhabitants. It was a considerable town under the Romans, and
     |called _Spinae_. Donnington Castle, now in ruins, was erected out
     |of the remains of its ancient castrum.
     |
   56|Speenhamland, Berks, 180. A tything containing 140 houses, and 712
     |inhabitants.
     |
   56|Speen Hill, Berks, 180.
     |
  183|Spire Lake, Devon, 148.
     |
  207|Spry, Devon, 151.
     |
   16|=Staines=, Middlesex, 71. A market town and parish, situated on
     |the banks of the Thames, containing 355 houses, and 2042
     |inhabitants. The town is neat, being lately much improved, and an
     |iron bridge erected over the river. The name is supposed to be
     |derived from the Saxon word _stana_, a stone, from the
     |London-mark-stone, which stands above the bridge at Coln Ditch,
     |denoting the boundary of the city of London on the river; this
     |stone bears the date 1280. The market is on Friday.
     |
  109|Stalbridge, Somerset, 140.
     |
     |Standerwick, Somerset, 205.
     |
     |Standerwick Common, Somerset, 205.
     |
     |Standlinch Down, Wilts, 209.
     |
   21|Stansted Borough, Surrey, 56.
     |
   36|Staplefield Common, Sussex, 49.
     |
     |Stapleford, Wilts, 208. A parish containing 46 houses, and 238
     |inhabitants.
     |
  140|Stawell, Somerset, 191. A parish containing 24 houses, and 124
     |inhabitants.
     |
  213|Stephens, St., Cornwall, 152. A parish containing 342 houses, and
     |1738 inhabitants.
     |
     |Steeple Langford, Wilts, 207. A village containing 118 houses, and
     |523 inhabitants.
     |
  274|Sticken Bridge, Cornwall, 130.
     |
  257|Sticker, Higher, Cornwall, 128.
     |
  191|Sticklepath, Lower, Devon, 149.
     |
   66|=Stockbridge=, Hants, 133. A borough and market town, containing
     |145 houses, and 663 inhabitants. It returns two members to
     |parliament, but is not a corporation, being a borough by
     |prescription. The market is on Thursday.
     |
   68|Stockbridge Race Course, Hants, 134.
     |
  144|Stockland, Dorset, 145. A parish containing 198 houses, and 988
     |inhabitants.
     |
  146|Stockland Hill, Dorset, 146.
     |
     |Stockton, Wilts, 207. A parish containing 42 houses, and 224
     |inhabitants.
     |
   90|Stockton Wood, Wilts, 162.
     |
    2|Stockwell Common, Surrey, 45.
     |
     |Stoford, Wilts, 208.
     |
     |Stoke, South, Somerset, 204. A village containing 39 houses, and
     |177 inhabitants.
     |
  124|Stoke, West, Somerset, 167.
     |
  201|Stone, Devon, 150.
     |
   70|Stone, Hants, 32.
     |
  141|Stonebarrow, Dorset, 112.
     |
   20|Stone Bridge, Kent, 3.
     |
   43|Stone Crouch, Kent, 20.
     |
     |Stoneham, North, Hants, 212. A parish containing 83 houses, and
     |675 inhabitants. In the church is a beautiful monument to the
     |memory of Lord Hawke.
     |
     |Stoneham, South, Hants, 212. A parish containing 228 houses, and
     |1255 inhabitants.
     |
   80|Stonehenge, Wilts, 161. (_See Amesbury._)
     |
   80|Stonehenge Down, Wilts, 161.
     |
  216|Stonehouse, Devon, 122. A township and chapelry, containing 358
     |houses, and 3407 inhabitants.
     |
   14|Stone Ness, Surrey, 53.
     |
     |Stone Quarries, Somerset, 204.
     |
  174|Stones Hill, Devon, 196.
     |
   82|Stoney Cross, Hants, 87.
     |
  185|Stop Gate, Devon, 197.
     |
   94|Stops Beacon, Wilts, 163.
     |
  103|Stour Head, Wilts, 172.
     |
  103|Stourton, Wilts, 172. A parish containing 50 houses, and 306
     |inhabitants.
     |
  102|Stourton Lane, Wilts, 172.
     |
  104|Stower, East and West, Dorset, 139. A parish containing 72 houses,
     |and 380 inhabitants.
     |
  103|Stower Common, Dorset, 139.
     |
  106|Stower Hill, Dorset, 139.
     |
  162|Straightway Head, Devon, 115.
     |
  242|Stream Works, Cornwall, 156.
     |
    6|Streatham, Surrey, 52. A parish containing 386 houses, and 2357
     |inhabitants. In 1660, a mineral water of a cathartic quality was
     |discovered in this parish, which is still held in esteem. The
     |church is a new building.
     |
    7|Streatham Common, Surrey, 52.
     |
  132|Street, Somerset, 190. A parish containing 88 houses, and 540
     |inhabitants.
     |
  137|Street Ash, Somerset, 169.
     |
   53|Street, North, Hants, 83.
     |
   61|Strettington, Sussex, 40, 216.
     |
   28|Stroud, Kent, 4, a town and parish, containing 196 houses, and
     |1172 inhabitants. It is separated from Rochester by the river
     |Medway, over which is a stone bridge. The church is a handsome
     |building, consisting of a nave and two aisles, one hundred feet in
     |length. In the south aisle is a stone chapel, the pavement of
     |which contains several specimens of Mosaic work.
     |
   29|Stubbings, Berks, 176.
     |
   28|Stubbings Heath, Berks, 176.
     |
   90|Studley, Wilts, 185.
     |
   58|Sturry, Kent, 11. A parish containing 130 houses, and 657
     |inhabitants. It is situated on the river Stour, over which is a
     |neat stone bridge.
     |
  246|Summer Court, Cornwall, 157.
     |
   91|Summerham Bridge, Wilts, 199.
     |
   11|Sutton, Surrey, 46. A parish containing 93 houses, and 579
     |inhabitants.
     |
   59|Sutton Hants, 132.
     |
   10|Sutton Common, Surrey, 46.
     |
  139|Sutton Mallet, Somerset, 191. A parish containing 17 houses, and
     |151 inhabitants.
     |
   94|Swallow Cliff, Wilts, 137. A parish containing 38 houses, and 217
     |inhabitants.
     |
     |Swanwick, Hants, 221.
     |
     |Swathling, Hants, 212.
     |
     |
     |T.
     |
  217|Tall Petherwin, Cornwall, 153.
     |
  140|Talworth, Somerset, 144.
     |
   15|Tangier, Surrey, 47.
     |
     |Tangmere, Sussex, 216. A parish containing 24 houses, and 136
     |inhabitants.
     |
   25|Taplow, Bucks, 176. A parish containing 80 houses, and 422
     |inhabitants. It is pleasantly situated on the banks of the Thames,
     |commanding a fine prospect of the surrounding country, which is
     |adorned with many elegant villas.
     |
  232|Tarr, Cornwall, 124.
     |
  100|Tarrant Hinton, Dorset, 106. This village contains 41 houses, and
     |192 inhabitants.
     |
  156|=Taunton=, Somerset, 193. A borough and market town, consisting of
     |two parishes, situated on the river Tone, containing 1371 houses,
     |and 6997 inhabitants. It consists of four principal streets, and
     |is in length, from east to west, near a mile. The houses are well
     |built, and the streets wide and clean. The church of St. James is
     |an old building, having a square tower and six bells; that of St.
     |Mary Magdalen is a handsome structure, having a lofty tower,
     |containing eight bells.
     |
     |This town has a considerable manufacture of silks, and here are
     |two banking houses. It is an ancient borough by prescription, but
     |the borough does not comprehend the whole of the town, only part
     |of the parish of St. Mary Magdalen being within its limits. It
     |sends two members to parliament, and has a market on Wednesday and
     |Saturday.
     |
  180|Tedburn, St. Mary, Devon, 147. A parish containing 84 houses, and
     |527 inhabitants.
     |
  227|Temple, Cornwall, 154. A parish containing only 2 houses, and 15
     |inhabitants.
     |
  226|Temple Bridge, Cornwall, 154.
     |
  227|Temple Tor, Cornwall, 154.
     |
   20|Tetsworth Water, Bucks, 175.
     |
   14|Thames Ditton, Surrey, 24. A parish pleasantly situated on the
     |banks of the Thames, containing 265 houses, and 1288 inhabitants.
     |
   53|Thatcham, Berks, 180. A parish containing 407 houses, and 1995
     |inhabitants.
     |
   44|Theal, Berks, 178.
     |
   98|Thick Thorn, Dorset, 106.
     |
  213|Thomas, St., Cornwall, 152. A parish containing 36 houses, and 173
     |inhabitants.
     |
   79|Thomas’s, St., Bridge, Wilts, 103, 135.
     |
  107|Thorncomb Bottom, Dorset, 107.
     |
    9|Thornton Heath, Surrey, 53.
     |
   94|Thorny Down, Dorset, 106.
     |
     |Thoulston, Wilts, 205.
     |
  160|Three Bridges, Somerset, 194.
     |
  151|Thurloxton, Somerset, 193. A parish containing 28 houses, and 136
     |inhabitants.
     |
   69|Thuxton, Hants, 159.
     |
  211|Tilbestraw Hill, Surrey, 56.
     |
   42|Tilehurst, Berks, 178. A parish containing 254 houses, and 1353
     |inhabitants.
     |
   42|Tilehurst Common, Berks, 178.
     |
   32|Tilgate Forest, Sussex, 49.
     |
   27|Timberham Bridge, Surrey, 48.
     |
  208|Tinhay Bridge, Devon, 152.
     |
  122|Tintinhull, Somerset, 167. A parish containing 41 houses, and 333
     |inhabitants.
     |
   52|Tisted, East, Hants, 95. A parish containing 59 houses, and 226
     |inhabitants.
     |
   54|Tisted, West, Common, Hants, 95.
     |
     |=Titchfield=, Hants, 222. A market town and parish, containing 551
     |houses, and 2949 inhabitants. The parish is very extensive, and
     |has a good roadstead for vessels in Titchfield Bay, near the mouth
     |of Southampton water. The river Aire passes the town, over which
     |it has a bridge. The market is on Saturday.
     |
     |Titchfield Common, Hants, 222.
     |
  142|Titherleigh, Dorset, 144.
     |
   28|Tittle Row, Berks, 176.
     |
    6|Tooting, Surrey, 45, 61. A parish containing 163 houses, and 1189
     |inhabitants. The church is of a circular form, with a low spire.
     |
    5|Tooting, Upper, Surrey, 45.
     |
  218|Tor Point, Cornwall, 123.
     |
  229|Tor, St., Bellarmines, Cornwall, 154.
     |
     |Tortington Woods, Sussex, 217.
     |
   78|Totton, Hants, 91, 92.
     |
  260|Trebista, Cornwall, 128.
     |
  230|Trebrown, Cornwall, 124.
     |
  219|Tredoll, Cornwall, 153.
     |
  248|Trefeesa, Cornwall, 157.
     |
  222|Tregantle, Lower, Cornwall, 123.
     |
  269|Tregarick, Cornwall, 129.
     |
  241|Tregos, Cornwall, 156.
     |
  241|Tregos Moor, Cornwall, 156.
     |
  216|Treguddick, Cornwall, 153.
     |
  257|Treloweth, Cornwall, 127.
     |
  227|Trerule, Cornwall, 124.
     |
  227|Trerule Foot, Cornwall, 124.
     |
  214|Tresbury, Cornwall, 152.
     |
  214|Tresbury, Higher, Cornwall, 152.
     |
  214|Tresbury, Lower, Cornwall, 152.
     |
  231|Tresilgin, Cornwall, 124.
     |
  265|Tresillian, Cornwall, 129.
     |
  214|Tresmarrow, Cornwall, 152.
     |
  219|Tresmayne, Cornwall, 153.
     |
  252|Trespen, Cornwall, 158.
     |
  216|Trethorn, Cornwall, 153.
     |
  218|Trevithick, Cornwall, 153.
     |
  248|Trevorry, Cornwall, 126.
     |
  245|Trewheela, Cornwall, 157.
     |
  224|Trewin, Cornwall, 123.
     |
  220|Trewint, Cornwall, 153.
     |
  220|Trewint Marsh, Cornwall, 153.
     |
  221|Trewint Tor, Cornwall, 153.
     |
  252|Treworgan, Cornwall, 158.
     |
   54|Triphill, Sussex, 43.
     |
  142|Troublehay, Devon, 145.
     |
  117|Troy Town, Dorset, 109.
     |
  263|Truck, Cornwall, 128.
     |
  268|=Truro=, Cornwall, 129, 158. A borough, market town, and parish,
     |containing 400 houses, and 2482 inhabitants. It is situated at the
     |confluence of two rivers, which form a convenient harbour for
     |small vessels. The streets are regularly built, and the church is
     |a spacious Gothic structure. It was incorporated by King John, and
     |its charter confirmed by Queen Elizabeth; it is also a stannary
     |town, and returns two members to parliament. The market is on
     |Wednesday.
     |
  251|Trutham, Cornwall, 158.
     |
   30|=Tunbridge=, Kent, 14, 18. A market town and parish, situated on
     |the small river Tun, a branch of the Medway, containing 704
     |houses, and 4371 inhabitants.
     |
     |Tunbridge is a very flourishing town, and once returned members to
     |parliament. The church is a handsome modern structure. The ruins
     |of its once magnificent castle are still to be seen, which was the
     |scene of many events recorded in British history. Here is a famous
     |grammar school, founded by Sir Andrew Judd, Lord Mayor of London
     |in 1551; many of the masters of this seminary have been
     |distinguished for their literary characters.
     |
     |The name of this town is supposed to be derived from _the Town of
     |Bridges_, it having a stone bridge over each of the streams of the
     |Medway. The market is on Friday, and on the first Tuesday in every
     |month for cattle.
     |
   35|Tunbridge Wells, Kent, 14. A town and chapelry, containing 236
     |houses, and 1618 inhabitants. This town may be divided into four
     |divisions, viz. Mount Ephraim, Mount Pleasant, Mount Sion, and the
     |Wells; the three former are the suburbs, and take their name from
     |their situation. Mount Ephraim was once the most fashionable
     |quarter, and had its assembly room, tavern, &c. but it is now
     |chiefly occupied by lodging houses. The part called the Wells, is
     |the centre of both business and amusement, having elegant assembly
     |rooms, a new chapel, and the place of the public parades, called
     |the Upper and Lower. These are two walks parallel to each other,
     |the former being the principal one, is paved with Purbeck stone;
     |from which the Lower Parade is divided by a range of palisadoes. A
     |portico, supported by wooden Tuscan pillars, runs the length of
     |the principal walk. Here is a neat little theatre.
     |
     |The principal trade of this town is in the manufacture and sale of
     |toys, made of cherry-tree, sycamore, &c. and the Tunbridge
     |turnery-ware finds a ready mart in most parts of the kingdom.
     |
     |The celebrated springs of Tunbridge were first discovered in 1606,
     |by Dudley Lord North, who had retired into the neighbourhood in
     |the last stage of a consumption; after three months use of these
     |waters, his Lordship’s health was quite recovered, and he lived to
     |be 80 years of age. The wells are now enclosed with a triangular
     |stone wall, containing a well paved area, entered by a handsome
     |gateway; over the springs are placed basons, with perforations at
     |the bottom to discharge the overflowing: at the fountain head it
     |is extremely clear and pellucid, having little smell, but the
     |taste is strongly impregnated with iron: the season commences in
     |March or April, and ends as late as November. In the neighbourhood
     |are many pleasant walks and rides.
     |
    5|Turnham Green, Middlesex, 69.
     |
  206|Twelveacre, Devon, 151.
     |
   70|Twenties, Kent, 12.
     |
  109|Twerton, or Twiverton, Somerset, 201. This village contains 109
     |houses, and 764 inhabitants.
     |
  142|Twisgate, Devon, 170.
     |
   34|Twyford, Wilts, 177.
     |
   14|Tythe Barn, Middlesex, 174.
     |
     |
     |U.
     |
   42|Uckfield, Sussex, 58. A township containing 102 houses, and 811
     |inhabitants.
     |
  170|Ufculm Down, Devon, 195.
     |
   85|Ugford, Wilts, 136.
     |
  144|Uppottery, Devon, 170. A parish containing 150 houses, and 795
     |inhabitants.
     |
   62|Upstreet, Kent, 11.
     |
   20|Upton, Bucks, 175. A parish containing 165 houses, and 1018
     |inhabitants.
     |
     |Upton Folley, Wilts, 207.
     |
     |Upton Lovell, Wilts, 207. A parish containing 37 houses, and 242
     |inhabitants.
     |
  125|Upway Street, Dorset, 171.
     |
  117|Urgashay, Somerset, 166.
     |
     |
     |V.
     |
    3|Vauxhall, Surrey, 23. A hamlet situated on the banks of the river
     |Thames. It contains several extensive manufactories of pottery,
     |stone, patent shot, and several distilleries. Here is also that
     |celebrated place of amusement for the metropolis, during the
     |summer season, known by the name of _Vauxhall Gardens_, originally
     |opened under the name of _Spring Gardens_, in 1730, by Mr.
     |Jonathan Tyers. The season commences on the 4th of June, and
     |closes the latter end of August; it is open three times a week.
     |
     |The grounds are very handsomely decorated with paintings,
     |originally from the humorous pencil of Hogarth; all the walks and
     |avenues are brilliantly lighted with variegated lamps and
     |transparencies. In the centre of the gardens is erected an
     |orchestra, where the concert commences at eight o’clock, assisted
     |by the most eminent performers, both vocal and instrumental, and
     |finishes about twelve o’clock with a display of fire works.
     |
     |In the neighbourhood of Vauxhall are many handsome residences.
     |
   79|Vespasian’s Camp, Wilts, 161. This ancient fortification occupies
     |the summit of an eminence, bounded by the river Avon; it is
     |surrounded by a single ditch and vallum, inclosing an area of
     |thirty-nine acres. Its origin is supposed to be British, though it
     |bears the name of a Roman Emperor, whose troops might probably
     |have occupied it, to whom additions and alterations, evidently
     |made, may be attributed; and there are also many traces remaining
     |which denote its subsequent occupation by the Danes and Saxons.
     |The area of this entrenchment is covered with plantations,
     |disposed in avenues, walks, &c.
     |
   52|Vine Hall, Sussex, 21.
     |
     |
     |W.
     |
     |Waddon, Wilts, 209.
     |
     |Walberton, Sussex, 217. A parish containing 72 houses, and 502
     |inhabitants.
     |
   61|Walcot, Great, Berks, 181.
     |
   61|Walcot, Little, Berks, 181.
     |
  133|Walditch, Dorset, 111. A village containing 19 houses, and 134
     |inhabitants.
     |
  152|Walford Bridge, Somerset, 193.
     |
     |Wallington, Hants, 222.
     |
   71|Wallop, Hants, 102.
     |
   66|Waltham Chase, Hants, 97.
     |
   56|Waltham, Upper, Sussex, 39.
     |
  134|Walton, Somerset, 191. A parish containing 70 houses, and 397
     |inhabitants.
     |
     |Walton Heath, Hants, 213.
     |
   17|Walton Heath, Surrey, 47.
     |
  140|Wambrook, Higher, Dorset, 145. A parish containing 22 houses, and
     |138 inhabitants.
     |
    6|Wandsworth, Surrey, 23. A parish situated near the confluence of
     |the Wandle with the Thames, containing 720 houses, and 4446
     |inhabitants. The church is a modern edifice, but the tower is of
     |ancient structure.
     |
     |Garret Lane, between this village and Tooting, was the scene of
     |the mock election of the Mayor of Garret, held for a number of
     |years at every general election among the mobility, to the great
     |emolument of the publicans of Wandsworth.
     |
   84|Wans Dyke, Wilts, 198. A ditch crossing the country from east to
     |west over Salisbury Plain for many miles together. It is by some
     |supposed to have been thrown up by the Saxons, as a boundary
     |between them and the Mercians; but Stukeley is of opinion that it
     |was extant before the time of the Romans. The name is British,
     |signifying the _Division Dyke_, thence it is inferred that it was
     |one of the boundaries of the Belgic kingdom.
     |
     |Warblington, Hants, 214. A parish containing 282 houses, and 1433
     |inhabitants.
     |
     |=Warminster=, Wilts, 206. A market town and parish, situated on
     |the small river Wyley, which falls into the Avon at Salisbury,
     |containing 1073 houses, and 4866 inhabitants. The principal trade
     |is that of malting, and a small woollen manufacture. The parish
     |church, situated at the west end of the town, is a spacious and
     |handsome building, with a square tower, containing six bells. It
     |has also a neat chapel of ease, erected for the convenience of the
     |parishioners, near the centre of the town: there is a good market
     |house and assembly room, and a free grammar school for twenty
     |boys.
     |
     |The houses are mostly built of rough stone, and the market on
     |Saturday is well supplied with corn.
     |
   60|Warnford, Hants, 96.
     |
   34|Warnham, Sussex, 64. A parish containing 103 houses, and 680
     |inhabitants.
     |
   54|Wartlington, Sussex, 21.
     |
   48|Washington Common, Sussex, 66.
     |
  122|Watercomb Gate, Somerset, 141.
     |
  127|Watergore, Somerset, 168.
     |
   27|Watts Cross, Kent, 18.
     |
  131|Wearyall Hill, Somerset, 190.
     |
  178|Welland, Devon, 147.
     |
   10|Welling, Kent, 2.
     |
  163|=Wellington=, Somerset, 194. A market town and parish, situated on
     |the river Tone, containing 745 houses, and 4032 inhabitants.
     |
     |This town gives title of Duke to the illustrious hero of Waterloo:
     |it is well built, consisting of four streets, the principal one
     |being half a mile in length. The church is a noble structure,
     |having a lofty tower, containing eight bells. Market on Thursday.
     |
  125|WELLS, Somerset, 189. This city is pleasantly situated on the
     |borders of the Mendip Hills, on the small river Wesitire,
     |containing 930 houses, and 5156 inhabitants. It is well built, the
     |houses neat, many of them elegant, and the streets well paved and
     |clean.
     |
     |The cathedral, the greater part of which, as it now stands, was
     |erected in 1239, by Bishop Joseline de Wells, is a spacious gothic
     |structure, in the form of a cross, being 380 feet long, and 130
     |wide. The entire west front is a pile of statues of most excellent
     |carved stone-work, and one of the principal windows contains some
     |beautiful paintings on glass; the cloisters adjoining are spacious
     |and elegant, and the chapter-house, in the form of a rotunda, is
     |supported by one pillar in the centre.
     |
     |The episcopal palace is reckoned the handsomest in the kingdom,
     |though small.
     |
     |The parish church of St. Cuthbert has a lofty square tower,
     |containing six bells; that of the cathedral has eight. The
     |town-hall is situated over Bishop Bubwith’s Hospital, which is
     |endowed for thirty poor men and women, besides which there are
     |several other charities.
     |
     |On the east side of the city is a spacious open market place. It
     |was first incorporated in the reign of Richard the First, and
     |created into a free borough by a confirmed charter of King John;
     |but in the reign of Queen Elizabeth the present corporation was
     |formed, consisting of a mayor, recorder, seven masters, and
     |sixteen common-councilmen. It returns two members to parliament.
     |
     |The chief manufactures are knitting of hose and bone lace. Market
     |on Wednesday and Saturday.
     |
     |In that part called _East Wells_, which is without the city
     |liberty, the annual races are held.
     |
   62|Westergate, Sussex, 42.
     |
     |Westerton, Sussex, 216.
     |
  157|Weston, Devon, 114.
     |
  114|Weston, Little, Somerset, 166.
     |
     |Weston and Netley Heath, Hants, 221.
     |
     |Weston Pond, Hants, 221.
     |
   96|Westrop, Wilts, 186.
     |
  179|Wey, Devon, 147.
     |
  144|Weycroft, Devon, 144.
     |
   67|Weyhill, Hants, 159. A small village, consisting only of a few
     |straggling houses on a rising ground, but noted for its fair,
     |which commences on the 9th of October, for all kinds of cattle,
     |cheese, hops, and pedlary, and reckoned the largest in England,
     |lasting fourteen days.
     |
  128|=Weymouth=, Dorset, 171. A sea port, borough, and market town,
     |containing 1019 houses, and 4732 inhabitants. It is a place of
     |considerable antiquity, but was small, and indifferently built,
     |till within these last twenty or thirty years, when, from its
     |fashionable resort as a bathing place, it became greatly enlarged,
     |and has now many elegant buildings. The church is a low building,
     |and consists of three aisles; the altar-piece is universally
     |admired.
     |
     |Weymouth formerly carried on a considerable trade, and was the
     |principal port of the county, but it is now rivalled by Pool;
     |being sheltered by the surrounding hills, possessing a pure air, a
     |fine beach of sand, and a calm bay, formed by a semicircle of more
     |than two miles, it is well adapted as a bathing place: near the
     |centre of the town is a commodious hot salt-water bath; there are
     |likewise private cold baths. The theatre is neatly fitted up, and
     |has a good company. The assembly room is very spacious and lofty,
     |and the interior handsomely decorated. Here are also well
     |furnished libraries, commodious lodging-houses, and every thing
     |necessary for the pleasure and convenience of its numerous
     |visitors.
     |
     |The port is defended by two castles, Sandford, and Portland. The
     |fashionable promenade is on _The Esplanade_, which is about half a
     |mile long, and 30 feet broad. _The Look-out_, on the Weymouth side
     |of the river, is another pleasant and much frequented walk,
     |commanding a beautiful prospect of the bay and Portland isles;
     |near it is the Camera Obscura, and in the vicinity is a battery of
     |heavy cannon, and some cavalry barracks.
     |
     |Two packets are stationed here for the islands of Guernsey and
     |Jersey. It sends two members to parliament; and has a market on
     |Tuesday and Friday.
     |
   36|Wheeler Street, Surrey, 37.
     |
  187|Whiddon End, Devon, 149.
     |
  188|Whiddon Down, Devon, 149.
     |
   57|=Whitchurch=, Hants, 100. A borough, market town, and parish,
     |containing 220 houses, and 1275 inhabitants.
     |
     |The town is an ancient borough by prescription, but not
     |incorporated. It sends two members to parliament.
     |
     |Whitchurch is noted for a trout stream, much frequented by
     |anglers. Market on Friday.
     |
  108|Whitchurch Down, Dorset, 108.
     |
  128|White Cross, Somerset, 168.
     |
  136|White Down, Somerset, 143.
     |
   84|White Horse, The, Wilts, 184. (_For description see Oldbury Camp_)
     |
  131|Whitelackington, Somerset, 168.
     |
   39|Whiteman’s Green, Sussex, 50.
     |
     |Whitenap, Hants, 211.
     |
     |White Parish, Wilts, 210. A parish containing 189 houses, and 877
     |inhabitants.
     |
   96|Whitesand Cross, Wilts, 138.
     |
  100|White Sheet Castle, Wilts, 172. This encampment derives its name
     |from the hill on which it is placed; it is strongly fortified by
     |nature on three sides, and on the fourth it is defended by three
     |ditches and valla, terminating in one, on the sides most difficult
     |of access. The area within the innermost vallum measures fifteen
     |acres, and the circumference of the outward ditch is 1032 yards.
     |
     |Sir Richard Colt Hoare is of opinion that this encampment was
     |originally a British work, with a single ditch; and supposes that
     |the other two were added at a subsequent period, and probably by
     |the Saxons.
     |
   96|White Sheet Hill, Wilts, 138.
     |
  135|Whiteway Common, Somerset, 169.
     |
   98|Whitley, Wilts, 200.
     |
   97|Whitley Common, Wilts, 200.
     |
  143|Wibble Green, Devon, 145.
     |
  117|Wick, Somerset, 203.
     |
     |Wicker, Hard, Hants, 222.
     |
   69|Wickham, Hants, 97, 213. A parish which appears to have been
     |formerly much more considerable, and is remarkable as being the
     |birth-place of the famous William of Wickham, in the reign of
     |Edward the Second.
     |
     |Wickham Corner, Hants, 213.
     |
     |Wildern, Hants, 212.
     |
  221|Wildmoor, Cornwall, 153.
     |
   88|Wiley, Wilts, 162, 207.
     |
   89|Wiley Down, Wilts, 162.
     |
  174|Willand, Devon, 195. A parish containing 50 houses, and 255
     |inhabitants.
     |
  173|Willand Moor, Devon, 195.
     |
     |Willoughby’s Barn, Wilts, 206.
     |
   97|Willoughby Hedge, Wilts, 163.
     |
  152|Wilmington, Devon, 114.
     |
  228|Wilton, Cornwall, 124.
     |
   84|=Wilton=, Wilts, 136, 208. A borough, market town, and parish,
     |situated on the river Wyley, containing 344 houses, and 2144
     |inhabitants. Its manufactures are principally carpets and
     |clothing. It is the county town, and sends two members to
     |parliament. The market is on Wednesday.
     |
    9|Wimbledon Common, Surrey, 24. This Common is surrounded by many
     |handsome residences: and here is a well, the water of which is
     |never known to freeze.
     |
  101|=Wimborne Minster=, Dorset, 89. A market town and parish,
     |containing 704 houses, and 3518 inhabitants. It is situated
     |between the rivers Stour and Allen, and has a bridge over each.
     |Its name is derived from its ancient minster or abbey, which is a
     |venerable Norman Gothic structure, having a fine tower in the
     |middle, and another at the west end. The middle tower had formerly
     |a spire, which is recorded to have been as high as that of
     |Salisbury. King Ethelred, who was slain in battle by the Danes, is
     |said to have been buried here. The market is on Friday.
     |
     |Wimmering, Hants, 214, 223.
     |
  107|=Wincaunton=, Somerset, 165. A market town and parish, containing
     |380 houses, and 1850 inhabitants. Its chief manufactures are
     |ticking and dowlas. The church has a neat square tower, containing
     |six bells. The market is on Wednesday.
     |
   62|WINCHESTER, Hants, 77, 84, 85. This city is situated on the banks
     |of the river Itchen, containing 1134 houses, and 6705 inhabitants.
     |Most of the buildings have an appearance of antiquity, and the
     |streets are broad, and remarkably clean. It is about half a mile
     |long, a mile and a half in compass, and contains eight churches.
     |
     |The present cathedral was began in the 11th century, by Bishop
     |Walkelyn, but was in part rebuilt by Bishop Wickham, in 1394. The
     |length of this magnificent fabric is 545 feet, including the
     |chapel of our lady, 54 feet, and the choir 136. The height of the
     |tower is 138 feet; but it appears, from the abrupt manner of its
     |termination, never to have been finished. The altar-screen is
     |thought by many even superior to that of St. Alban’s. The entrance
     |into the choir is by a noble flight of steps, the breadth of the
     |middle aisle. On each side of the great arch of the entrance are
     |recesses, wherein are placed the statues of King James and Charles
     |the First, cast in copper.
     |
     |The cross, from north to south, is divided from the choir by
     |wooden partitions, carried up to a vast height. The stalls in the
     |choir are of fine Gothic workmanship, but the Bishop’s throne is
     |inferior to the rest. The stone screen, where the high altar is
     |placed, is a neat and delicate piece of Gothic work.
     |
     |At the west end of the church is a painted window, representing
     |the history of the Old Testament, but much defaced. At the east
     |end is also a window with paintings. For many years this church
     |was the place for the coronation of our kings.
     |
     |The east end of the church is terminated by three chapels; that on
     |the south is called Bishop Langton’s Chapel, of curious carved
     |work, containing several elegant tombs. In the Chapel of our Lady,
     |King Philip and Queen Mary were married.
     |
     |The new college of this city was founded by William of Wickham.
     |The building consists of two large courts, the first containing
     |suits of apartments for the warden, ten fellows, seventy scholars,
     |three chaplains, six choristers, masters, &c. In the centre is an
     |elegant chapel. In the second court are the schools, and a long
     |cloister and enclosures for the diversion of the scholars. In the
     |middle of the cloisters is the library, a strong stone building.
     |Over the door of the school is a statue of the founder. Contiguous
     |to the college, on the west, is a spacious quadrangular building,
     |forming a detached school for commoners, or gentlemen not on the
     |foundation, under the immediate care of the head master.
     |
     |The mother church of Winchester is _St. Lawrence_; it consists of
     |one large aisle, with a lofty square tower, containing five bells.
     |_St. Thomas’s_ is an ancient structure, consisting of two aisles,
     |divided by round pillars of the Gothic order; the tower is a low
     |ordinary building. _St. Maurice’s_ was originally a priory, and
     |consists of two aisles, one of which is very spacious; the tower
     |is strong. _St. Michael’s_ is a low and ancient building, tiled,
     |having two good aisles, and a tower containing five bells. _St.
     |Swithen’s_ is erected over a postern, called King’s Gate, and
     |consists of a large neat room, ascended to by a stone stair-case.
     |_St. Peter’s Cheesehill_, consists of two ailes, of different
     |sizes, both neat, but plain; it has a tower containing three
     |bells. _St. John’s-at-Hill_ is divided into three ailes by round
     |Gothic pillars; the tower is remarkably strong, finished with a
     |turret, containing a clock. _St. Martin’s Winnall_ was rebuilt in
     |1736, and consists of one aisle, having a small tower at the west
     |end, containing one bell.
     |
     |In this city are a number of a charitable institutions, among
     |which is the public infirmary, a handsome edifice.
     |
     |The town hall is a good building, supported by doric pillars, and
     |ornamented with a statue of Queen Anne.
     |
     |In 1788 a new spacious county gaol was erected on the Howardian
     |plan, in the court of which is a neat chapel; there is also a
     |Bridewell for the city, and another for the county. The theatre is
     |a handsome structure, built in 1785. There is an annual
     |well-attended music meeting held here in September, continuing for
     |three days, which closes with a ball. Winchester has also its
     |winter assembly, concerts, balls, and every other fashionable
     |amusement.
     |
     |The streets are well paved and lighted; and here are two
     |banking-houses. The ancient castle, which is supposed to have been
     |built by King Arthur, was mostly demolished by the parliament
     |forces during the civil wars, except the old hall, in which the
     |assizes are held; in this also hangs what is denominated Arthur’s
     |Round Table, with the names of the knights thereon. In this castle
     |William the Second was crowned, and on its site a royal palace was
     |began in 1683, the principal floor of which is a noble range of
     |apartments, and contains in all 160 chambers, which has often been
     |occupied by prisoners of war, on their parole.
     |
     |This city sends two members to parliament. The markets are held on
     |Wednesday and Saturday, and are well supplied with all kinds of
     |provision, poultry, fish, &c.
     |
  122|Windham’s Sock, Somerset, 167.
     |
  120|Windmill Hill, Somerset, 141.
     |
   22|=Windsor=, Berks, 175. A borough and market town, delightfully
     |situated on the banks of the Thames, containing 1051 houses, and
     |6155 inhabitants. It has belonged to the crown ever since the
     |conquest, and has of late been much improved, containing several
     |good streets, which are well paved and lighted.
     |
     |The parish church is a spacious building, situated in the High
     |Street, in which also stands the Guildhall, or Town-house, a neat
     |structure, erected in 1686, supported by columns and arches of
     |Portland stone. On the north side is a statue of Queen Anne, and
     |on the south side that of Prince George of Denmark: the inside is
     |adorned with the portraits of many royal person ages.
     |
     |Windsor contains many handsome buildings, but its chief pride is
     |the Castle, which for more than seven hundred years has been the
     |favourite country residence of the British kings. (_see Index of
     |Seats_)
     |
     |_The chapel of St. George_ was originally a chapel dedicated to
     |Edward the Confessor. It was rebuilt by Edward the Third, and
     |established as a collegiate church, but owes its present form to
     |Edward the Fourth, and its completion to Henry the Seventh. Here
     |lie interred under the choir, the bodies of Henry the Eighth and
     |Jane Seymour, Charles the First, and a daughter of Queen Anne.
     |Adjoining the east end is a neat building, erected by Henry the
     |Seventh, a burial place for himself and successors: a most
     |sumptuous monument was erected here by Cardinal Wolsey; but he
     |dying at Leicester, was there privately buried.
     |
     |This chapel, after having been long neglected, was repaired by his
     |present Majesty, in 1790, when it was adorned with rich carvings
     |in wood, and received a new altar-piece, organ, and gallery. The
     |ceremonies of the installation of the Knights of the Garter are
     |performed in this chapel with great state and solemnity.
     |
     |Windsor was made a free borough by Edward the First, and sent
     |members to parliament in the thirteenth year of the same reign,
     |which it has continued, except an intermission from the 14th of
     |Edward the Third, until the 25th of Henry the Sixth.
     |
     |Here is a neat theatre, and extensive barracks for horse and foot
     |soldiers. The market is held on Saturday, in the area beneath the
     |town hall, and is well supplied with all kinds of provision, fish,
     |&c.
     |
  134|Windwhistle, Somerset, 143.
     |
     |Wine Cross, Hants, 213.
     |
  125|Winterborne Abbas, Dorset, 110. A parish containing 26 houses, and
     |156 inhabitants.
     |
  126|Winterborne Common, Dorset, 110.
     |
   83|Winterborn Stoke, Wilts, 161. A parish containing 48 houses, and
     |256 inhabitants.
     |
   77|Winterbourn Down, Wilts, 103, 135.
     |
   75|Winterbourn Gunner Down, Wilts, 103, 135.
     |
  110|Winterborne Whitchurch, Dorset, 108. A parish containing 89
     |houses, and 430 inhabitants.
     |
   74|Winterslow Hutt, Wilts, 103, 135.
     |
     |Wishford, Wilts, 208. A parish containing 80 houses, and 346
     |inhabitants.
     |
     |Wishford, Little, Wilts, 208.
     |
   19|Wistley Common, Surrey, 25.
     |
   51|Withdean, Sussex, 51.
     |
   37|Witley, Surrey, 37. A parish containing 163 houses, and 1039
     |inhabitants. A spring in this parish, at Bonfield, is reckoned
     |efficacious for sore eyes. This place retains its ancient
     |privilege from serving on juries. From _Hindhead_ and _Gracewood
     |Hills_, are charming prospects of the surrounding country.
     |
   36|Witley Common, Surrey, 27, 33.
     |
  170|Wonford, East, Devon, 116.
     |
   27|Woodcock Bridge, Surrey, 56.
     |
   22|Wood Hatch, Surrey, 48.
     |
  204|Woodland, Devon, 121.
     |
   35|Wood’s Gate, Kent, 19.
     |
   92|Woodyates Inn, Dorset, 105.
     |
    8|Wood, West, Kent, 2.
     |
   29|Wooley Green, Berks, 176.
     |
  123|Woolham Mill, Somerset, 167.
     |
   49|Woolhampton, Berks, 179. A parish containing 43 houses, and 322
     |inhabitants.
     |
   39|Woolson Bridge, Hants, 74.
     |
   63|Woolwich Wood, Kent, 9.
     |
     |Woolverton, Somerset, 205. A parish containing 28 houses, and 169
     |inhabitants.
     |
   93|Workly Down, Dorset, 105.
     |
   56|Worthing, Sussex, 67, 218. This place, which a short time ago
     |consisted only of a few miserable huts, has now many handsome
     |buildings, several of them sufficiently extensive and elegant to
     |accommodate the first families in the kingdom.
     |
     |The modern buildings are on the coast, but the village extends
     |towards the Downs, in a straight line, for about half a mile. Here
     |are two respectable libraries, and commodious warm baths.
     |
     |Worthing is much resorted to during the bathing season, by those
     |who prefer quiet to the noise and bustle of Brighton; and there is
     |a facility of bathing here in the most stormy weather, with a
     |level extent of sand for a length of ten miles. Being surrounded
     |at the distance of about a mile by the chain of Sussex Downs, even
     |in the winter months, the chilling blasts of the northern and
     |eastern winds are entirely excluded. A fishery is carried on here
     |in the spring for mackarel, and in the autumn for herrings.
     |
   48|Worting, Hants, 99. A parish containing 15 houses, and 120
     |inhabitants.
     |
   21|Wray Common, Surrey, 54.
     |
  201|Wrangerton, Devon, 120.
     |
   35|Wych Cross, Sussex, 57.
     |
     |
     |Y.
     |
  141|Yarcombe, Devon, 169. A parish containing 110 houses, and 740
     |inhabitants.
     |
   85|Yarnbury Castle, Wilts, 162. This ancient fortification, like most
     |others of a similar nature, occupies an elevated spot. Its
     |original construction is supposed to be British, though it was
     |afterwards occupied by the Romans and Saxons. At present it
     |consists of a double ditch and vallum, inclosing an area of
     |twenty-eight acres and a half. There are six entrances, but
     |several of these do not appear to have belonged to the original
     |work. The principal one towards the east is defended by a strong
     |and detached out-work, and there is also on the west side another
     |defended by an out-work of an irregular form. The inner rampart is
     |very strong, fifty-two feet high, and is of a more regular
     |construction than the outer vallum. The circumference of the
     |exterior ditch is nearly a mile. Many vestages of British and
     |Roman antiquities have here been discovered.
     |
  148|Yarty Bridge, Devon, 113.
     |
   31|Yately Heath, Hants, 73.
     |
   83|Yatesbury, Wilts, 184. A parish containing 51 houses, and 234
     |inhabitants.
     |
  117|Yellowham Hill, Dorset, 109.
     |
  126|Yeobridge, Somerset, 168.
     |
  120|=Yeovil=, Somerset, 141. A market town and parish near the river
     |Yeo, or Ivil, containing 747 houses, and 2774 inhabitants. Many of
     |the streets are wide, and the houses well built of stone and
     |brick. The church is a fine old Gothic structure, with a high
     |tower, containing six bells. This town was formerly noted for its
     |manufacture of woollen cloth; but its principal mart now is that
     |of leather gloves. The town is well supplied with water, and the
     |market, which is held on Friday, is very considerable for lean
     |cattle, and all kinds of provision.
     |
  119|Yeovil Bridge, Somerset, 141.
     |
     |
     |Z.
     |
  102|Zeal’s Green, Wilts, 164.
     |
  102|Zeal’s Row, Wilts, 164.
     |
  190|Zeal, South, Devon, 149.

END OF INDEX TO THE DIRECT AND CROSS ROADS.


⁂ _Although every possible care has been taken to render this work the
most complete of its kind, and the Proprietor is unconscious of any
existing defect, yet, from the nature of the subject, alterations in
some few instances may have occurred (even since the information it
contains was collected), he therefore most earnestly solicits those
noblemen and gentlemen who may be pleased to patronise his book, that
they will condescend to communicate any information which, in their
opinion, may contribute to its improvement. Such communications,
addressed to the Publisher_, =E. Mogg=, _No. 51, Charing Cross, will be
most gratefully accepted and immediately investigated._




DIRECTIONS TO THE BINDER.


_The Binder is desired to Bind this Work in the following Order._

  1. Vignette Title.
  2. Title, Dedication, Advertisement, and Table of Routes.
  3. The Maps as per Paging.
  4. Index of Seats.
  5. Index of Places.
  6. Map of England.


Whittingham and Rowland, Printers, Goswell Street, London.




[Illustration:

  A
  New Map
  OF
  =England & Wales=
  ADAPTED TO
  =MOGG’S= Survey of the =High Roads=.

_London, Published May 1^{st}. 1817 by E. Mogg. N^{o}. 51, Charing
Cross._]




  Transcriber’s Notes

  Unless listed below, the spelling, punctuation and formatting of the
  original have been retained, including inconsistencies, and including
  the spelling of geographical and proper names that may have changed
  since.

  Maps are best viewed in the web browser version, available at
  www.gutenberg.org; the web browser version also contains links to
  larger maps.

  References to “Pa. nnn” or “Page nnn” (in the text as well as in the
  maps) refer to map nnn rather than page nnn.

  In the Indexes, I and J are considered the same first letter.

  Indexes: order of entries has not been corrected.

  Indexes: inconsistencies in references have not been corrected.

  Index to the Country Seats, introduction: ... together with a
  Description of the most remarkable. As printed in the source document.

  Index to the Country Seats, Burton Park: Battesla Leoni is possibly
  Giacomo Leoni (1686-1746).

  Index to the Country Seats, Bell Vue: called Belle Vue on the map.

  Index to the Country Seats, Fleming, Col.: South Stoneham House is not
  listed in the Index to the Country Seats.


  Changes made

  Some minor corrections in formatting made silently.

  Some obvious typographical errors and misprints have been corrected
  silently.

  A‘Court and A‘Dair have been standardised to A’Court and A’Dair

  Maps:
    map number 174 176 changed to 174 175

  Index to the Country Seats:
    Entry Comb House changed to Combe House
    Northumberland, Duke of: Worrington House changed to Werrington
    House
    Saltonstall, Miss: Hatchfold changed to Hatchford
    Wheble, James: Woodly Lodge changed to Woodley Lodge
    Wilkes: Rooks Nest changed to Rooksnest
    =Ximenes= changed to Ximenes.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Survey of the High Roads of England
and Wales. Part the First., by Edward Mogg

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK SURVEY OF THE HIGH ROADS ***

***** This file should be named 56742-0.txt or 56742-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/6/7/4/56742/

Produced by Chris Curnow, Harry Lamé and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This
file was produced from images generously made available
by The Internet Archive)


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

